As we have predicted, where Phalech and Japheth were, in the time of Phalech, the confusion of language occurred during the construction of the tower of Babel, Genesis 11. Therefore, the nations are divided into three parts throughout the world. If the depicted figure is inspected with tenacious consideration, it will become clear in which region of the world each part is situated, as we will evidently show in the following sections, proceeding first through the regions of Asia, then Africa, and Europe, which we will describe in alphabetical order so that the diligent reader may be able to grasp with tenacious memory the distances and connections of kingdoms and regions. Without knowledge of these, judgments are made about the truth of sacred history in canonical books, with the blindness of color, as John 3 says: "If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how then will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?" That is, if you are not able to grasp earthly things, how will you comprehend heavenly things? Therefore, how much labor they endured in exploring the provinces of the earth, what dangers of the sea they suffered, and what great expenses they incurred, will become clear from my letter to the priest Paulinus, chapter one. Therefore, one must not turn a deaf ear to what is expedient and fitting for all. However, the present work, I hope, was not fully capable of containing all the names of lands, kingdoms, and regions due to the narrowness of the page. Therefore, the diligent reader, having noted the name of the region, should immediately refer to the following, collected with laborious effort from Isidore, Pliny, Herodotus, and the gloss of sacred history, according to the alphabet. Note also that if the desired information is not found in one word, look for it under its synonym. For Chaldea, Babylon, and Shinar are almost the same; Sicyon, Arcadia, Hungary, Pannonia; Lacedaemon and Sparta; Sweden, Gothia, and so on for each. With these well noted, it will be easy to comprehend in memory every land and province in the text of the Bible and the legends of the saints. And to be led, as it were, through an orbit into the knowledge of these, as Prosper says in the one hundred and sixth chapter.

The orb is said to be from the wheel and is any spherical and round figure. And therefore the world is called an orb because it is round and is sometimes combined with earth or lands and is called orbisterr or orbisterrae. And according to Isidore, in book 15 of the Etymologies, it is divided into three parts. One part is Asia, another Europe, and the third is called Africa. The ancients divided these three parts of the world unequally. Asia extends from the meridian through the east to the north. Europe, however, reaches from the north to the west. But Africa extends from the west to the meridian. Asia alone contains one part of our habitable world, namely half; the other parts, namely Africa and Europe, have obtained the other half. Between these parts, the great sea proceeds from the ocean and intersects them. Therefore, if you divide the order into two parts, east and west, Asia is in one, and Africa and Europe are in the other. Thus, the sons of Noah divided after the flood, among whom Shem with his power possessed Asia, Japheth Europe, and Ham Africa, as the gloss says on Genesis 10 and on the first book of Paralipomenon. Chrysostom, Isidore, and Pliny say the same.

About Asia
Asia, therefore, which is believed to be the middle part of the orb, is named after a certain woman who held the kingdom of the east among the ancients, as Isidore says in book 15. This, situated in the third part of the orb, has the rising of the sun from the east, the ocean from the meridian, our sea from the west, and is bounded by the Maeotian Lake and the Thanais River from the north. It has many provinces and regions and diverse nations of peoples, admirable in life and in morals, differing remarkably in the shapes of their bodies as well as in the affections of their minds, whose names and locations we will briefly set forth here, following the alphabetical order.

About Assyria.
Assyria is a region and province of Asia, so called from Assur, the son of Shem, who first inhabited and cultivated that region after the flood. It has India from the east, touches the Mediterranean from the meridian, has the Tigris from the west, and the Caucasus Mountains from the north, where the Caspian Gates are, as Isidore says in book 15. In this region, the use of purple was first discovered. From there also came the first perfumes and body ointments, as well as fragrances, from which Roman luxury and Greek extravagance flowed, as Isidore says. And it is the most temperate land in temperate regions, but in many extremities, due to the disturbances of the earth's masses, just as in beasts and serpents, so also in the morals of men it is mostly restless, as Pliny says in book 3, where he describes the cruelties of men. In this province dwell the Assyrians, named after Assur, a most powerful people from ancient times, who held the region from the Euphrates to the borders of the Indian Ocean in the middle of the earth, as Isidore says in book 9.

About Arabia.
Arabia is a sacred province, also called Thurifera, as Isidore says in book 15, for there especially abound frankincense trees and other fragrant trees. Because of the sacred fragrance of these aromatics, the Greeks called it Eudaimon, and the Latins called it Blessed, as the same author says in the same place. For in these groves grow myrrh and ebony, and other medicinal plants especially thrive. There grows the phoenix bird and a diverse and vain multitude of other forest creatures, both beasts and birds. In Arabia, there is also a diversity of gems, as Isidore, Pliny, and Orosius say. There is duplex sardonyx and the gem iris, indeed a multiple number of gems is found. There dragons are found, and certain asps in whose bodies the preciousness of diverse gems is found. In it is Saba, so named from the son of Cush, and it is a part of the land of Arabia, the southernmost part of the Persian Sea, narrowed and consumed towards the Arabian Gulf. About Saba, inquire below.

About Armenia
Armenia is named after Armenus, the Thessalian companion of Jason, who, after the loss of King Jason, gathered a multitude of those who wandered about and seized Armenia, and named it from his own name, as Isidore says in book 15. This is the land of Ararat, to which the sons of Sem fled after they killed him while he was praying in the temple of his god, as the history of the fourth book of Kings relates. And Ararat is said to be the mountain on which Noah's ark rested after the flood. This Armenia lies between Mount Taurus and the Caucasus, extending from Cappadocia to the Caspian Sea, having the Ceraunian Mountains from the north, from which the Tigris River springs, as Isidore, Pliny, and Crispus say in the same place. There are two Armenias, namely Upper and Lower, just as there are two Pannonia, in each of which certain wonderful and monstrous things are often found in our opinion. The land in Armenia, where it touches the shores of the Tigris or Euphrates, is most pleasant with herbs and fruits, groves and orchards, but it is filled with many kinds of cruel beasts and serpents, as the same author says. And Pliny narrates much about this in book 2.

About Albania
Albania is a province of greater Asia, named from the color of its people, because they are born with white hair. For it is a cold region compared to the other regions that are said to belong to Asia. This Albania has the Caspian Sea from the east and rises through the shores of the northern ocean to the Maeotian marshes and desolate, uncultivated places, extending itself. This land has huge dogs, both in size and body, so fierce that they press bulls, subdue lions, and, lifting up the strongest of beasts, overcome and prostrate them, as Pliny exemplifies with the Albanian dog, which, sent to Alexander, triumphed over a lion, a boar, and an elephant in the stadium, as the same author says in book 7, chapter 1. The people of Cambus Albania here have painted and bluish eyes in the pupil, so that they see better at night than during the day, as the same author says in the same place, book 9. Solinus also narrates the same as a marvel.

About the Amazons
Amazonia is a region partly in Asia and partly in Europe, which is near Albania and is named after the Amazons. The Amazons were Goths who came out of the inferior Syrtis of the Oxus, as Isidore says in book 9, who, after their husbands were killed by treachery, taking up the arms of their husbands, bravely attacked their male enemies and exacted due vengeance from their own hands. For they killed every male from old to young with the sword, and keeping the women and plundering the spoils of the enemy, they decreed to live together without the company of males. They appointed two queens over themselves, namely Marpesia and Lampeto, following the example of the Mantians, who always used to have two kings. One of them, proceeding with the army, fought against the enemies, while the other governed the republic in the meantime. They became so strong and warlike in a short time that they subjected a large part of Asia to their dominion. Among themselves, they did not allow any male to live or remain for any reason, but they chose men from neighboring peoples for the sake of offspring. Approaching them at fixed times, they conceived children. But when the time for conception was completed, the men returned to their own places, and they either killed the males or sent them back to their fathers at the right time, but they kept the daughters for themselves, training them to shoot arrows and hunt. And so that they would not be hindered in the shooting of arrows by the thickness of their breasts, they burned off their breasts in the seventh year, as it is said. And therefore they are called Amazons, that is, without breasts, as Isidore says in book 9. Many anciently called these women Unimammae. Hercules, as it is said, first subdued one of them, then Achilles. But this was rather through cunning than through strength, as is contained in the deeds of the Greeks and Amazons. But the same author says that the Amazons were completely destroyed by Alexander the Great to the point of annihilation. But the history of Alexander does not say this; rather, it is said that the queen of the Amazons, when Alexander asked for tribute through messengers, wrote back: "It is astonishing of your prudence that you have started a war with women. Consider, if fortune favors us, and it befalls you to succumb, how confused you will be when you are defeated by women. But if the gods do not allow us to defeat you, it is little honor for you to yield, since you have triumphed over mere women." Upon hearing this response, the king, moved to admiration, said that it was fitting not to conquer women by the sword and fury, but rather by love, wherefore he granted them liberty and did not violate them, but rather subjugated them to his rule by cunning.

About Babylon.
Babylon is a province of Asia in Chaldea, whose capital is the city of Babylon, from which the region is named, so noble that the names Chaldea, Assyria, and Mesopotamia have sometimes passed over to it, as the same author says in book 15. Most noble rivers flow through it, among which the chief are the Tigris and Euphrates, which have their source in Paradise. It is a region most fertile in all fruits and produce, rich in wild animals and aromatic trees, herbs, and abundant in gems and metals, camels, horses, asses, mules, and other beasts of burden. It abounds in strange and wonderful beasts, especially in the deserts. Its metropolis was once called Babylon, that is, confusion, because there the language of those building the tower of Babel was confused, as Genesis 11 says, whose magnitude Jerome describes in his commentary on Isaiah 11. Babylon, he says, is the metropolis of the Chaldeans, sixteen thousand paces in a square from angle to angle, which is sixty-four miles in total. From there, it extended two leagues and two-thirds of a league, and there was a tower of three thousand paces in height, that is, two leagues, narrowed from wide to narrow, whose material was baked bricks made of indissoluble bitumen, so that it could not be dissolved by fire or water. And because the language was confused there, it is called Babel in Hebrew, but Babylon in Greek, which entire region around Babylon is called. This was ruled by a most powerful king, namely Nebuchadnezzar, who, among the other nations of the world that he subjected to the Chaldean empire, also took Judea captive, wherefore Babylon, under his grandson Belshazzar, was completely destroyed by Cyrus and Darius, kings of the Persians and Medes, and never rebuilt. But from its remains, namely Sophon Therosophon, were built in Persia, as Jerome says. The place, however, where Babylon once was is deserted and contains nothing but monstrous beasts. Inquire below about Chaldea.

About Bactria
Bactria is a region in Asia, from which a river named Bactrus takes its name, as Isidore says in book 15. Its parts that are flat are surrounded in part by India, while those that are opposite are bounded by the Indus River. The remaining part is watered by the Ochus River. Bactria sends forth very strong camels, which trample down their feet, as Isidore says.

About Bithynia.
Bithynia, as Isidore says, is a province of Asia Minor, situated in Pontus, facing away from the east towards the part of the south, adjacent to Troy, previously named by many names. First, it was called Lithicia, then it was soon named Bithynia after King Bithynus. It is larger than Phrygia, whose metropolis is called Nicomedia, where Hannibal, the prince of Carthage, fleeing, breathed out his soul by poison, as Isidore says in book 15. But Bithynia was first founded by Phoenicia, which was previously called Miramunda, as the same author says.

About Cappadocia.
Cappadocia is a province in Asia Minor, located at the head, touching Armenia from the east, Asia Minor from the west, the plains that the Amazons once had from the north, and the Tauric Mountain from the meridian, under which lies Cilicia and Isaura, as far as the Cilician Gulf, which faces the island of Cyprus. The Albis River flows abundantly through it, which once divided the kingdoms of Lydia from Persia, as Isidore says in book 15 and Orosius in book 1. From here first came Amosoch and Saphet, whence also a city remains among them to this day, called Moreta, as Isidore says in book 9.

About Chaldea.
Chaldea, as if Cassida, was named from Caseph, the son of Nachor, the brother of Abraham, as the same author says. Hence the Chaldeans are called from Casseth, as if Cassidei. And it is a very large region situated next to the Euphrates, in which is the plain of Dura, where the giants convened after the flood, and by their common counsel Nimrod built the tower of Babel, from which the city built there was called Babylon, and the entire region was named Babylon in the future, as is evident above in the letter B about Babylon. But here it must be said what Orosius says about Babylon in book 2. "The first king among the Assyrians," he says, "who was more eminent than the others, was Ninus. After Ninus was killed, Semiramis, his wife, the queen of all Asia, enlarged and restored the city of Babylon, which Nimrod had begun, and established it as the capital of the kingdom of the Assyrians." That kingdom lasted and stood unshaken for 1264 years until Sardanapalus, whom Arbates, the prefect of the Medes, killed. Then the kingdom of the Assyrians began to perish, but it was completely destroyed by Cyrus and Darius, so that it could scarcely be believed by mortals that so strong a city could be captured. For it was arranged in a square with equal sides in the manner of camps, and the magnitude and firmness of its walls can scarcely be believed. For in width, the walls had 50 cubits, and in height, they had four times as much. The circumference was 480 stadia, and the wall was built of baked brick, compacted with bitumen. A wide ditch lay outside, in which the river flowed around the front of the walls. There were 100 gates in the circuit of the walls. There were dwellings for defenders equally arranged, of wonderful magnitude and strength. And although it was so strong, it was quickly conquered, captured, and overthrown. For Ninus divided the river into 360 channels, just as he had done before with the Ganges River, when, angry against the river because it had submerged one of his soldiers, he divided it into 360 parts. Thus, the water that flowed through the city was drawn off, and it was more easily captured, as Orosius says in the same place. In that year in which Babylon began to be destroyed by Arbates, Rome began to be founded. Hence, under one coincidence of time, that one fell, and this one rose, and when the first kingdom of the East failed, the kingdom of the West began to flourish.

About Kedar
Kedar is the name of the region in which the Ishmaelites dwell, who were the sons of Kedar, the firstborn of Ishmael. For Ishmael was the son of Abraham by Hagar, his Egyptian handmaid. They are falsely called Agarenes or Saracens, who boast that they are sprung from Sarah, as the same author says in book 9. These do not build houses, but like wild men, wandering through desolate places for pastures, they dwell in tents, acquiring food from plunder and hunting. And therefore Ishmael was called Onager, as the gloss says on Genesis 16. For he was a wild man, and all the beasts surpassed him in wildness and were tamed by him, as Methodius says, foretelling that at the end, gathered together, they will come out of the deserts and occupy the orb of the earth for eight weeks of years. And their way is called the way of anguish, for they will subvert cities and kingdoms in sacred places. They will kill priests, sleep with women there, drink from sacred vessels, and tie beasts to the tombs of saints because of the wickedness of the Christians who then exist. These and many other things he recounts that the inhabitants of Kedar, the Ishmaelites, will do in the world.

About Canaan
Canaan is a region in Phoenicia, which was possessed by the sons of Canaan, the son of Ham, after the flood, and there were ten nations from them, as the same author says in book 9. From these were seven nations of the seed of Canaan, in whom the curse of Ham was rooted as if by hereditary right, and therefore they were destroyed by the sons of Israel by divine command, and their lands were occupied by them, as Isidore says in book 9.

About Cilicia.
Cilicia is a province of Asia Minor, named from a certain ancient son of Jupiter, as they assert, as the same author says in book 15. It has Pamphylia from the west, the Cilician Sea from the south, and the ridges of the Taurus Mountains from the east and north. The Cydnus River abundantly intersects it, having its source near Vibius of Tarsus, whose mother is also called Tharsis. Paul was from Tarsus, a city of Cilicia, where saffron, most abundant and excellent, is found, surpassing gold in fragrance and color, as Isidore says in book 15.

About Havilah.
Havilah is a province in upper India, beginning from the east and spreading towards the north in a long tract of land. It is said to be named Havilah from the son of Heber, the patriarch of the Hebrews, as the gloss says on Genesis 10, where it is said that among the sons of Heber, Joktan is named Havilah. The Ganges River flows through this region, which is called Pishon by another name in the book of Genesis, which Pliny greatly extols with praises in book 6, chapter 20, where he says that the Indian Ganges River receives many or rather countless rivers and navigable streams, such as the Hydaspes, Cantabria, Isapus, and many others, and is never wider than forty stadia or deeper or higher than fifteen paces. This river encircles the land of Havilah, in which gold and aromatic spices abound, such as bdellium and precious gems such as onyx and carbuncle and the like, as the same author says and the gloss on Genesis. In this land, there are many partial regions, in which a multitude of elephants is especially said to abound.

About Phrygia
Phrygia is a province of Asia Minor, so called from Phrygia, the daughter of Europa, bordering Galatia from the north, Lydia from the south, and Mysia from the east. It is bounded by the Hellespont from the north, as Isidore says in book 15. There are two Phrygias, Major, which has Smyrna, and Minor, which has Ilium. The river of the province divides maritime Phrygia, as the same author says. Phrygia, however, was called Dardania from Dardanus, who, setting out from Greece with his brother Thracius, occupied Phrygia and, reigning there, named Phrygia Dardania from his name. His brother, however, occupied Thrace, as the same author says in book 9.

About Galilee.
Galilee is a region of Palestine, so called because the men are whiter than the Palestinians. This is twofold, namely Upper and Lower, and they are contiguous to each other and connected, adhering closely. It is a fertile and excellent land, very rich and fruitful in grains, fruits, vines, and olives. It is watered by the Jordan River in some part of it. It has noble and very large lakes, useful and healthful, which, because of their magnitude and multitude of fish, are called seas. There is, as Isidore says, Lake Tiberias, so called from the town of Tiberias, and it is a lake more healthful for the health of the body than all others, having 10 stadia. Inquire above about Lake Tiberias and Lake Gennesaret in the treatise on waters and ponds.

About India

India, east of Rdia, is a region named after the Indus River, which encloses it on the western side. It extends from the meridian eastward to the sunrise and northward to the Caucasus Mountains, encompassing many peoples and towns, as well as the island of Taprobane, abundant in gems and elephants. It also has the islands of Argyre and Aurea, rich in gold and silver, and fertile. There are also forests with trees whose leaves never fall. India also has the most noble rivers, the Ganges and the Indus, and the Hypanis, illuminating the Indian regions. India is very healthy with a favorable wind; it produces crops twice a year. It also produces colored cloths, men, elephants, monkeys, the unicorn beast, the psittacus bird, ebony wood, cinnamon, pepper, and aromatic calamus. It also yields ivory and precious stones: beryls, chrysoprase, carbuncles, diamonds, pearls, and unions, with which the ambition of noble women burns. There are also golden mountains, which it is impossible to reach because of dragons and griffins and all kinds of human monsters, as Ysidore says, whose words are all the aforementioned, as is clear in book 15. Moreover, India is the largest, wealthiest, most powerful, and most populous of all the regions of the world. Pliny recounts wonders about India's multitude and power in book 6, chapter 19. He says that there are many kings in India, some of whom have 94,000 armed men, and others have 600,000 cavalry and 9,000 elephants, who are paid daily. Hence, there is a great conjecture of many riches. Others have 9,000 infantry and 1,000 cavalry, and 700 elephants, and all these are prepared for the onset of war. Hence, it is clear that the land is powerful and wealthy. Whence, as it is said there, some in India cultivate the land, others engage in warfare. Some transport their merchandise, others govern and rule the republic very well. Some sit on thrones, others render judgments, some especially devote themselves to religious matters and attend to the discipline of wisdom. And since it is vaster and larger than all regions, it is more wonderful in all things. For as Pliny says in book 8, chapter 3, India, he says, abounds in miracles in a long stretch towards Ethiopia. For in India are born the largest animals and dogs larger than others; trees of such great height are said to grow there that they cannot be surpassed by arrows. But this is due to the fertility of the soil, the temperature of the sky, and the abundance of water. The fig tree there extends so much that many troops of soldiers can recline under the shade of one. Reeds also there are of such great height that single internodes sometimes carry three men in a navigable trough. Moreover, there are men of great stature there, exceeding five cubits in height, who are not afflicted by sneezing, nor by headache, nor by toothache, nor by eye ailments, nor are their bodies harmed by immoderate heat of the sun, but rather they are hardened. Moreover, their philosophers, whom they call gymnosophists, stand from sunrise until sunset in the hottest sands, gazing at the sun with immovable eyes. In those mountains also are men who have reversed soles and eight toes on their feet. There are also dog-headed men there who are clothed in wild animal skins; however, they bark like dogs and do not speak at all. They live by hunting and fowling; they are armed with claws and teeth. They are very numerous, more than 120,000, as it says there. There are also women in a certain tribe of India who never give birth more than once, and immediately turn gray. There are also other monstrous men there, about whom Baruch speaks in the treatise on monstrous animals. There are also certain men at the end of eastern India, near the source of the Ganges, without mouths, clothed in the down of leaves, who live only on the odor of apples; they do not eat or drink anything, but only attract the odor of flowers and wild apples with their noses, and thence they live; they die quickly in a bad odor. There are also others who live very long and never grow old, but die as if in middle age. There are also those who turn gray in youth and enter old age. Pliny recounts these and many other wonders about Hyrcania.

About Hyrcania

Hyrcania is a region in Asia situated under the ridges of the Caucasus Mountains. It is indeed a very wide region, having many peoples differing in language and customs, as Ysidore says in book 15. Orosius also says that it extends from the Caucasus Mountains into Scythia, having 44 peoples, who, because of the infertility of the land, wander far and wide, some of whom inhabit fields, some live by hunting, but some, truly cruel and bestial monsters, live on human flesh and drink their own blood, as Ysidore says in book 15, where he adds that Hyrcania is named after the Hyrcanian forest, which lies beneath Scythia, having the Caspian Sea to the east, Greater Armenia to the south, Albania to the north, and Hybernia to the west. It is a wild region, abundant in bears, lions, leopards, tigers, and panthers. It also produces birds that are called Hyrcanian, whose feathers shine at night; and such birds are also found in Germany, as Ysidore says in the same place. John Hyrcanus, the son of Simon the high priest, conquered these Hyrcanian peoples in the time of the Maccabees, after whose conquest John was named Hyrcanus, as the master says in the beginning of the evangelical history. Jerome says the same.

About Idumea

Idumea is a region from Arabia named after Edom, that is, Esau, the son of Isaac. For the sons of Esau, who was called Edom, drove out the Horites and inhabited that land, and they called that land Idumea, that is, the land of the sons of Edom, from themselves. Moreover, Idumea is separated from Palestine by certain deserts, whose borders extend to the Red Sea. Moreover, it is a strong and mountainous land situated under the fierce heat of the sun; and therefore the inhabitants of the land make subterranean houses and caves for themselves against the heat of the sun, as the gloss says above Obadiah.

About Judea

Judea is a region in Palestine named after Judah, from whose tribe it had kings. This was previously called Canaan, from the son of Ham, or from the ten tribes of the Canaanites, whom the Jews drove out and possessed that land. Its length extends from the town of Arpha to the town of Juliacen, in which there is a common habitation of Jews and Tyrians; its width, however, extends from Mount Lebanon to Lake Tiberias. In the middle of Judea is the city of Jerusalem, as it were the navel of the whole region. The land is rich in various resources, fertile in grains and fruits, illustrious with rivers and waters, excellent in balsams, abundant in metals, cedars, palms, cypresses, and distinguished by other most noble trees, full of vineyards, pomegranates, and olives, a land of milk and honey. Whence, because of the grace of the elements, the Jews thought that land promised to their fathers to be flowing with milk and honey, since it promised them the glory of the resurrection, as Ysidore says in book 15. Pliny says of this in book 5, chapter 12: Judea is a part without which it spreads far and wide, which is close to Egypt and Arabia, dispersed in rough customs, which the Jordan River flows through and divides and distinguishes Galilee from the other Jews. In Judea, however, is the city of Jerusalem, the most famous city of the eastern world. Judea, however, has hot and healthy springs; it also has at the end the Dead Sea, which is called Lake Asphaltites. It is so called because it produces nothing living except bitumen, in which nothing lives. But if anything living is thrown in, it floats. The Jordan River drinks from this lake and loses its praised waters mixed with pestilential waters.

About Hybernia

Hybernia is a region in Asia joined to Pontus near Armenia. In this region grow herbs that are useful for dyeing, as Ysidore says.

About Lectonia

Lectonia is a province of Scythia whose people, the Lectimi, are strong and brave, warlike and fierce men. Moreover, Lectonia is a region whose soil is fruitful, marshy in many places, and very wooded, irrigated by rivers and waters, very full of hay and livestock, fortified by forests and swamps, having few other mountains, except for rivers, forests, and swamps; and therefore that region cannot be conquered in the summer. But only in winter, because the waters and rivers freeze.

About Lycaonia

Lycaonia is a gulf of the sea, and the major city is called Lystra, from which one sails through the sea of Syna Pamphylia to Italy, as is clear in Acts 27. Moreover, this region is truly called Lycaonia, whose cities are said to have been Lystra and Derbe, to which Paul and Barnabas fled from Iconium, where, after healing a man in Lystra, the Lycaonians called Barnabas Jove and Paul Mercury, and they wanted to worship them, as it is said in Acts 14.

About Mesopotamia

Mesopotamia possesses a Greek etymology because it is surrounded by two rivers. It has the Tigris to the east and the Euphrates to the west. It begins in the north between Mount Taurus and the Caucasus, which is followed by Babylon and Chaldea to the south, as Ysidore says in book 9, chapter 5. Moreover, it is a very large region in Asia, both in width and in length, abounding in fruits, pastures, livestock, and rich in rivers and metals.

About Nabataea

Nabataea is a province of Arabia named after Nabaioth, the son of Ishmael, and it is a region between Syria and Judea. Moreover, it rises from the Euphrates and extends to the Red Sea, as Ysidore says in book 15. Moreover, it is a very rich and fertile land in fruits, produce, livestock, precious stones, and metals. Pliny says of this in book 6, chapter 29: The Nabataeans inhabit a town situated in a valley, having almost two miles in width, surrounded by inaccessible mountains, with a flowing stream, and it is distant from the town of Gaza six hundred paces from the Persian Gulf, 131.

About Ophir

Ophir is the name of a province in India, from Ophir, a man of the descendants of Heber, and named after him, which was also called Aurea Antiquitus because it has golden mountains that are inhabited by lions and very fierce beasts, to which no one else dares to approach, unless the ship is standing near the shore of the land, which they find dug up by the claws of lions and other beasts, and they receive it into their ship; if the beasts sense them, they are easily received into the ship, as Rabanus says on that place. When Solomon's ships came to Ophir, they took gold from there, 3 Kings 9, 28; 2 Chronicles 8, 18. Pliny says almost the same. Formerly, this province had gold, precious stones, chrysoprase, and diamonds, thymi wood and ebony, psittacus birds and peacocks, ivory teeth, apes, and other monstrous beasts, as Pliny and Ysidore say. To this region, however, one travels from Judea through long and rough detours and through the island of Taprobane, which Alexander the Great later leveled to the ground; one passes through Ophir. Moreover, the inhabitants of the land of Ophir, coming from the stock of Heber, from the Capua River to the region of India, which is now called Regia, inhabited, as Josephus relates, and they called the entire province Ophir after Ophir, the grandson of Heber, as Rabanus says on 2 Chronicles 7, 18. Moreover, this Ophir was the son of Joktan, the son of Heber, as is clear in Genesis 10. Moreover, this is the region of the land of Havilah, which Gihon encircles, as it is said in Genesis 2, and it is similar to its golden mountains and aromatic spices and in gems, as Pliny says.

About Parthia

Parthia is the largest region in Asia, extending from the borders of India to the borders of Mesopotamia. Because of the great virtue of the Parthians, Assyria and the regions of the Seres took their name from them. Moreover, there are particular provinces in it, namely Arachosia, Parthia, Assyria, Media, and Persia, which regions share borders with each other, take water from the Indus River, and are enclosed by the Tigris River. Moreover, the places are mountainous and rough, and there are many rivers. Moreover, the provinces are distinct with their own borders, named after their own authors. Thus, Arachosia is named after its town; the Parthians, however, coming from Scythia, occupied it, because they called it by their own name. This kind of thing is connected to the Red Sea to the south, to the Hyrcanian Sea to the north, and to the Median kingdom to the west, extending from the Caspian Sea to the Scythian people. Parthia is wonderful with many prodigious and monstrous things, as Pliny says in book 5. For the beasts are fierce, leopards, tigers, and lynxes, and there are asps and serpents there, of a very fierce and cruel nature. The people are also harsh and cruel, and frugal in diet, content with salt and cardamom for food and drink, as it says there and it is said in the gloss on Daniel about the region of the Persians and Parthians, chapter 7, about the beast that was like a bear.

About Palestine

Palestine is a province also called Philistia, whose metropolis, which is now called Ashkelon, was formerly called Philistia, from which city the entire region of Palestine or Philistia was called in ancient times, as Ysidore says in book 15. Also, he says in book 9, chapter on the names of the Philistine peoples: the Philistines, he says, are those who are also called Palestinians. The Philistine language does not have the letter "P" in Hebrew, but uses the Greek "Phi" instead; therefore, Philistines are called Palestinians, so they are called from their own city. However, they were first called Alophisi, that is, aliens, because they were sons of Israel, alien and far separated from their society and race, as it says there in the same place. This region, as Ysidore says in book 15, has the Red Sea to the east, is bordered by Judea on the southern side, is enclosed by the borders of Tyre on the northern side, and is terminated by the Egyptian border to the west, as it says there. Moreover, the Philistines originally came from Canaan, from the son of Ham, named Cheth, from whom the Philistines and Canaanites first emerged, as it is said in Genesis 10. The people, as Herodotus narrates, are cunning and shrewd, always troublesome and hostile to the Israelite kingdom, both because they envied the prosperity of the Jews and also because they presumed too much on the happiness of their land and on the strength and power of subjecting the islands of the sea to their dominion, as it says in the same place.

About Pamphylia

Pamphylia, which is also called Isauria, because it is full of all kinds of gold, as Ysidore says in book 15, is a province in Asia Minor. It has a metropolis, a city that is called Seleucia, as it says in the same place, which Seleucus Antiochus, who founded Antioch, founded, as Ysidore says in book 9, chapter 5. Moreover, it is a maritime region between Cilicia and Bithynia, from which one sails to Italy through the island of Cyprus, as in Acts 27.

About Pentapolis

Pentapolis is a region on the border of Arabia and Palestine, named after the five cities of those people that were consumed by celestial fire. For the land, very fertile, more so than Jerusalem, is now deserted and burned. For because of the crime of the inhabitants, fire descended from heaven, which dissolved the region into ashes and embers, whose shadow and certain appearance is still seen in the embers and trees. Moreover, trees grow there, bearing fruits of such a beautiful appearance that they generate a desire to eat them, which, if you pluck them, fade and dissolve into ash and exhale smoke, as if they were still burning, according to Ysidore in book 15. This province, before its consumption, was so rich that sapphires and other precious gems were found in its fields, and among its clods Job touches on it, saying: The place of sapphires is its stones, and its clods are gold, Job 28. But afterwards that whole region was turned into the Dead Sea, so called because it produces nothing living, nor does it receive anything from the genus of things found. Neither fish nor birds nor ships pass through, because all things lacking life immediately sink to the bottom. If a lamp is lit, it floats and is extinguished, but if it is submerged, it is extinguished, as Ysidore says in book 14, where he speaks of the Dead Sea in the treatise on seas and waters. On the shore of this sea, near the borders of Sodom, grow the aforementioned apples, beautiful in appearance, but foul and bitter in taste, as the gloss says on the second epistle of Peter, chapter 2. Moreover, there is another Pentapolis of Africa in the province of Libya, so named from five cities: Berenice, Cyrene, Apollonia, Ptolemais, from which Ptolemais and Berenice are called from the regions. Moreover, this Pentapolis of Libya is joined to Cyrene and assigned to its borders, as Isidore says in book 15.

About Persia

Persia, or Persia, is a region of Asia assigned among the Parthian kingdoms, descending from the east to the Indus, having the Red Sea to the west, touching Media to the north, and Germany to the south, which is annexed to Persia, with the city of Meussa being the most noble. Moreover, magic art first originated in Persia, to which Nimrod the giant went after the confusion of tongues, and there he taught the Persians to worship fire. For those men in those parts worship the sun, which is called "Hel" in their language, as Ysidore says in book 15. Persia is named after Perseus, a king who, crossing from Greece into Asia, subdued the barbarian peoples there with long and continuous war. Finally, being victorious, he subjected the conquered race to his name, as Ysidore says in book 9, chapter 5, on the names of the races. For the Persians were considered ignoble for many times, and were held as if of no importance among the peoples; the Medes were always more powerful, as it says there. Moreover, Persia is very wide and very dangerous, whose noble city is named Elam, so called from Elam, the son of Shem, from whom the race of the Persians first proceeded, as Ysidore says. And from Elam the Persians were first called Elamites. Moreover, in Persia is a most noble city named Elimayda, which is now called Persepolis, of which it is said in 1 Maccabees 6 and 2 Maccabees 9. Moreover, in Persia was a most noble and rich city, and a temple in it very rich in gold and silver, and there were golden weapons and lances and shields, which Alexander the Macedonian king left there.

About Ramathea

Ramathea, which is also Ramazota, is a region situated near Decapolis, called from the city of Ramatha, in which Samuel the prophet was born, and it is called by another name Arimathaea, from which Joseph was, a just man who anointed the Lord's body with Nicodemus and buried it honorably, as the gloss says on Luke 23, chapter 28. Moreover, it is situated in the tribe of Ephraim in Judea and located in the highest mountains, because of which it is also called Ramathia, that is, exalted. For "Rama" sounds exalted, as Jerome says. Moreover, the land, although mountainous, is fertile in fruits and in produce, in vineyards and in olives, irrigated by springs, the purity of the air is very healthy, the altitude of the site is very firm, as Jerome says, and very suitable for observing from a distance.

About Rutia

Rutia, or Ruthenia, which is also Moesia, is a province in Asia Minor, situated on the border of the Roman territories, having Gothia to the east, Pannonia to the north, Greece to the west, and Greece to the south. Moreover, that land greatly agrees with Bohemia and the Slavs in idiom and language. Moreover, that part is called Galatia, and its inhabitants were formerly called Galatians, to whom Paul the Apostle is said to have directed an epistle, see above about Galatia.

About Sabaea

Sabaea is a region in Arabia named after the son of Cush, who was called Saba. This does not extend to the Persian Gulf in a narrow tract of land towards the east, it approaches Chaldea to the north, it is bordered by the Arabian Gulf to the west, and it is adjacent to Ethiopia to the south. Moreover, it is a region giving frankincense and odors; for in its groves myrrh, cinnamon, frankincense, and other aromatic things are produced, as Ysidore says in book 15. Indeed, the region is rich in aromatic spices, in precious stones, and metals. There are also phoenixes and many wonders there, which are reported in the region of Arabia by the authors, about which see above about Arabia. The queen and ruler of these provinces was especially the Queen of Sheba, who, however, obtained the principality of all of Africa in her times, as Herodotus says. For she was queen of Ethiopia and Egypt, as the gloss says on 3 Kings 10, and consequently it is believed that she obtained other kingdoms of the west at that time.

About Samaria

Samaria, as Ysidore says in book 15, is a region of Palestine, so called from the metropolis city or town in antiquity. For Samaria was formerly a royal city in Israel, which is now called Sebastia by Augustus. This region lies in the middle of Judea and Galilee, beginning from a town whose name is Eleis, whose site is similar in nature to Judea, not differing from it in virtue, as Ysidore says, from which it took its name from a mountain named Somer, as it says in 3 Kings 16. However, from that country of the Samaritans a race later arose, which, having migrated from the Assyrians, inhabited Samaria, which was thenceforth called Samaria, that is, custody, because, after the people of Israel were captured, they were in custody of the country, indeed, they were left there for custody by the Assyrian kings, as Ysidore says in book 9, chapter 5, on the names of the regions, see above in the same place about Mount Samaria in the letter S.

About Spartiata

Spartiata is a region near Greece, which is also called Lacedaemon, named after Lacedaemon, the son of Semele, see about Lacedaemon in the letter L. The ancients call the Lacedaemonians and Spartians, as Ysidore says in book 9.

About Seres

Seres is a province in the east, it took its name from a certain town that is also called Seres; there wool is collected from trees, and silk is prepared from it. Whence the poet says of its inhabitants: unknown in face, but almost without voice, the Seres.

About Siria

Inam Sirus, grandson of Abraham through Kethura, is said to have named it after his own name, as Yb. says in books IX & XV. It borders the Euphrates River to the east, and to the west it is bounded by the Great Sea and Egypt. To the north it is bordered by Armenia and Cappadocia, and to the south by the Arabian Gulf, as the same author says. Its location extends in immense length, but it is narrower in width. It contains many provinces, namely Comagene, Phoenicia, part of which is in India, beyond the Saracens and Nabataeans. It is a very populous and fertile region, rich in grains and fruits, herds and flocks, horses, asses, and camels. It is very rich in incense, aromatic spices, and metals, with numerous cities and fortified camps, and is irrigated by noble rivers, lakes, and ponds, possessing noble seaports, especially in maritime Palestine and Phoenicia. The people are fierce and warlike, and engaged in various small-scale commercial activities. It also has many nations differing in appearance, language, customs, and manners. Some of them live in deserts, such as the Nabataeans and Saracens, some in mountainous regions, some in wooded areas and forests, with which those nations' regions abound, as Herodotus narrates.
Desichima

About Ichima

Ichima is a small land located in Samaria, in the middle of Judea and Galilee. It is named after Sichem, the son of Hamor, who built it. The city, which is now called Neapolis, was once called Sichem. The surrounding area is called Sichia, as Ys. says in book XVI. Jerome says that this was the portion of land that Jacob gave to his son Joseph as an inheritance, and therefore that land belonged to the tribe of Ephraim. Joseph was buried there, and his mausoleum is still shown there today, as Jerome says. Jacob bought that land with hard-earned money, for one hundred lambs, as is proven in Genesis 33. And Jerome says that Jacob said he had taken it from the Amorite hands with a sword and a bow. There was a turpentine tree there, under which Jacob hid the idols of his sons. And then he ascended from Sichem to Luzan, also known as Bethel, as is said in Genesis 25. In this place, Joseph's brothers pastured their flocks. But when Joseph sought them, they were not found in Sichem, but in Dothan, where they sold him to the Egyptians. Abimelech, the son of Jeroboam, destroyed Sichem and, after killing the inhabitants, sowed salt in its vicinity, as is said in Judges 9. In this territory was Jacob's well, near which the Lord, tired from his journey, rested, and asked a woman to give him water to drink from that well, as is said in John 3. It is a place of great fertility, wonderful pleasantness, and great sublimity.
About Scythia

About Scythia

Scythia is a very large region, the inner part of which is Asia. The lower, or prior, part is in Europe, and this lesser part extends from the Maeotian marshes, bordering between the Danube and the northern ocean, as far as Germany, as Isidore says in book XV. The first part of this is Alania, then the Maeotian marshes, then Gothia, Dacia, and then Germany, where the Suevi occupy a large part, as he says. Therefore, Scythia has several regions, some of which are rich and some uninhabitable. In most places, they abound in gold and gems, but access is rare due to the savagery of the Gryphons. The best emeralds and pure crystal are found there, as the same author says. It contains monstrous men and immense beasts in many regions, such as lynxes, tigers, very fierce bears, and lions, especially in the deserts and the region near Hyrcania, which we discussed above.
About Trachonitis

About Trachonitis

Trachonitis is a region in Judea, over which Philip, the brother of Herod, presided. For the entire kingdom of the Hebrews was divided into four tetrarchies, the first of which was Galilee, whose tetrarch was Herod. The second was the land of Ituraea and the region of Trachonitis, over which Philip presided as tetrarch of both regions. The fourth was the region of Abilene, over which Lysanias, the brother of Herod and Philip, presided. Judea was divided into so many particular principalities by the Romans to subdue the pride of the Jews, as the gloss on Luke says, regarding that passage: "Philip being tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, etc."

About Troy

The province of Troy in Phrygia was originally called Dardania, named after Dardanus. Dardanus came from Greece to Phrygia, where he first reigned. After him came his son Erichthonius, then his grandson Tros, after whom the city of Troy and the surrounding country were named, as Yf. says in book IX. After the fall of Troy, many Trojans built a fleet and sought settlements in various parts of the world, expelling many nations and inhabiting their lands. From their progeny arose the most powerful nations of the world in later times, as the most truthful histories of various regions attest.
Here follows the second part of the world, which is called Europe.

About Attica

The province of Attica is the same as ancient Greece, part or city of which was called the city of Athens, which was once the nurse and mother of liberal arts and learning. Greece had nothing more illustrious, nothing nobler, than that which devoted itself to the study of divine wisdom, as Pliny and Ys. say in book XV. Plato was a doctor of the entire province of Attica. Demosthenes made its eloquence known for many centuries, as Sallust reports. But above all, Paul the disciple, an Areopagite, commends it, whose profound wisdom adorned almost all parts of the world, as Epiphanius says in his commendation of Dionysius the Areopagite, as Isidore also reports.

About Achaia

Achaia is a province of Greece in Europe, named in ancient times after a certain king Achaeus. This province is almost entirely an island. For it is surrounded on all sides by the sea, except to the north where it borders Macedonia. To the east it has the Cyrenean Sea, to the southeast the Greek Sea, to the south the Ionian Sea, and to the southwest and west the Cassopian Islands. Only on the northern side does it border Macedonia and Attica in Greece. The capital of this province is Corinth, a very fortified place, as Yb. says in book XIII. For access to it is difficult due to the altitude of its location, the multitude of its people, the strength of its fortifications, and its proximity to the sea. Corinthus, the son of Horestes, founded it, whom the Greeks call Corinth Hexam, i.e., in the administration of the republic, as Ys. says in book XVI.

About Alania

Alania is the first part of Scythia, which is the first and largest region of Europe. It begins at the Danube River, descending westward through the northern ocean and extending to the borders of Spain. Its eastern and southern parts, rising from the Pontus, are entirely surrounded by the Great Sea and end in the islands of Gades, as Isidore says in book XIV. Therefore, the first part of Scythia is Alania, which extends to the Maeotian marshes and as far as Dacia. It is a very wide region, containing many fierce barbarian nations, situated under a cold climate, declining from the east to the north.

About Germany

Germany is a noble and generous region in Europe, named after the Lemannus River beyond the Danube, according to Isidore, where many of that land's inhabitants lived, who were called Alemanni after the Lemannus River. This is also called Germany, as Is. says in book XIV, where he says that Dacia, which is the end of lower Scythia, borders Germany, having the Danube to the east, the Rhine River to the south, and the ocean to the north and west. And there are two Germanies, namely Upper Germany, which extends as far as the Alps and the Mediterranean Sea or the Adriatic Sea, where the Great Sea ends in the Aquileian parts through the marshes. Lower Germany is around the Rhine. Both Germanies are rich lands and famous, and numerous in both towns and wealth, and warlike peoples. Hence, from the fertility of the people being born, it is called Germany from "germinando" (to germinate), as it says in book XV. It begets generous and immense peoples, about whom it is said in book IX of Is. that the Germanic nations are many, having immense bodies, strong in strength, bold in spirit, fierce, untamed, occupied with plunder, capture, and hunting, handsome in appearance and form, long-haired and blond, generous in spirit, cheerful and jovial, and especially the Saxons, who are superior to the aforementioned. About whom Ys. says: "The Saxon race," he says, "situated on the shores and coasts of the ocean, is agile in virtue and agility." Hence it is so called because it is a very strong race of men, superior to other pirates. For they are troublesome to their enemies not only by land, but also by sea, and are as unbearable and difficult to deal with as if they were made of stone. Their land is very fruitful, irrigated by excellent waters and rivers. In their mountains, almost all metals are mined, except tin. There are also other provinces in both Germanies that are not unworthy of praise, such as Austria, Bavaria around the Danube, Swabia, Alsace around the Rhine, and many others, which it would be tedious to enumerate individually. From the Germanic Saxons came the Angles, whose progeny and succession possess the island of Britain, whose language and customs the English race still uses today in many ways, as Bede says in "De Gestis Anglorum" (On the Deeds of the English). See below about Ireland.

About Saxony

About England

England is a very large island in the ocean, surrounded by the sea and divided on all sides from the rest of the world, which was once called Albion from the white cliffs that appear from afar around the shores of the sea. In later times, certain nobles from the destruction of Troy, departing with a fleet, as the oracle of Pallas is said to have foretold, arrived at the shores of the aforementioned island, who, fighting fiercely with the giants who then possessed the land, overcame the giants by skill and strength and subjected the island to their rule. And Brutus, who was the prince of that army, named the land Britain, as if it were an island acquired by Brutus by arms and power at that time, from whose progeny most powerful kings proceeded, whose magnificent deeds, if it pleases anyone to hear, let him read the history of Brutus. However, that same island, after a long time, was acquired by the Germanic Saxons through many and various interventions and fierce battles, and was possessed by their descendants, who, with the Britons either dead or exiled, divided the island among themselves and, assigning to each province the seat of their language, their property, and their name, left behind the memory of their language, calling the island England after Engela, the daughter of a most famous Saxon duke, who possessed that island after many battles. Yet Yh. says that it is called Anglia from "angulo" (angle), as if it were a land situated in the end or corner of the world. And St. Gregory, hearing that English boys were being sold in Rome in pagan times, alluding to the name, replied with a pious word: "They are Angles," he said, "having faces so bright that they look like angels. It is fitting to announce the tidings of salvation to them." For, as Bede says, Germanic nobility still abounded in the worship of idols. Pliny says many things about this island, and Orosius likewise, but Isidore touches upon the main points expressly, which others have related obscurely. Britain, which is now called England, is an island situated opposite the coast of Gaul and Spain. For its circumference is estimated at 487,000 miles, and there are many large rivers and warm springs in it. There is a large supply of metals, jet stone is abundant there, and also pearls. The soil is excellent and very suitable for various fruits. There are long-fleeced sheep in great abundance. There is an immense multitude of wild deer. Few wolves and no snakes are found on the island, and therefore the sheep, which abound there, are safely left in the fields and pastures without a guard, as Bede says. Hence, someone describing the English island in verse said: "England, a fierce land and a fertile corner of the world, a blessed island that scarcely needs the whole world, whose entire world needs its help. England is full of jokes, a free people fit to joke: a free people, a free mind, and a free tongue. But the tongue is better and more willing to speak of many things." It would be tedious to insert many other praises and dignities of the island here, which are discussed below under Britain.

About Aquitaine

Aquitaine is a province of Gaul in Europe, as Isidore says in book XIII, and it is so called from the oblique waters of the Loire River, which is its boundary on the northern side, which almost encircles it. The land is indeed fertile, distinguished by many towns, cities, and fortified camps, irrigated by waters and rivers, adorned with forests, fields, shores, and meadows, planted with vineyards and fruit-bearing trees of various kinds, and rich in great wealth. Under the name of Aquitaine, many particular provinces are comprehended, as Pliny says. It has the ocean to the west, as Orosius says, which is called the Aquitanian Gulf. It has Spain to the west, Lugdunensis Gaul to the north and east, and Narbonensis province to the southeast and south, as Orosius says.

About Anjou

Anjou is a province of Gaul, which is adjacent to Aquitaine and extends as far as Lesser Britain. Its metropolis is called Angers, after which the entire province around it is called Anjou. It is a land rich in wine and fruit, abounding in all good things, similar to Aquitaine in vineyards and grain.

About Auvergne

Auvergne is a province of Lugdunensis Gaul, whose major city is now called Clermont. It has Germany to the east, Italy to the south, Narbonensis province to the west, and Gallia Belgica to the north. It is a wooded and forested land, mountainous, pastureland, full of wild animals and herds, fruitful and rich in wine in many places.

About Apulia

Apulia is a maritime region of Italy, which is part of Europe, separated from the island of Sicily by a strait of the sea. The land is indeed very populous, full of gold and silver, rich in wheat, wine, and oil, famous for its most noble cities, fortified with fortified camps and towns, fertile and abundant in grains and fruits of various kinds. It is the end of Europe towards the south, which alone is divided from Barbary by the sea. It is said to have hot springs that provide health and medicine to the infirm. The metropolis of that region is called Brindisi, which the Greeks once built and is said to be named from the Greek word "bruda," meaning "head of a deer" in Latin. For it is said to be arranged in the manner of a deer's head having a crown, as Ys. says in book XXVIII, chapter "On the Names of Cities." Adjacent to Apulia is the land called Capitanata, very fertile in grain, so that its soil is most fertile in producing a multitude of grains, from whose abundance many provinces, even those overseas, are sustained.

About Asturias

Asturias is a province in inner Spain, situated on the border of Europe and Africa, as Yf. says in book XIV. Hence the Asturians are named, who now inhabit near the Ystur River. Their land is almost entirely surrounded by forests and mountains, as the same author says. They are said to be sun-worshippers in relation to others, otherwise peaceful, generous, and kind, whose metropolitan city is named. The land indeed abounds in wine, wheat, and oil. For the land is cold and less suitable for this kind of production of grains or fruits. However, millet and chestnuts abound there in great measure. It is said that many kinds of fruits and apples grow there, from which the locals make a drink for themselves. They are most rich in wild animals and also domestic livestock. The people, however, are generally said to be cheerful by nature and have a melodious voice, agile in running, and warlike in battles, of elegant stature and beautiful form, but their location, their native land, and the quality of the cold region make their language difficult to speak or understand.

About Aragon

Aragon is a province in Spain, fertile in grains and fruits, irrigated by springs and rivers, once occupied by the Aragoths, from whom the region is still named today. The race of the Rangoths lived in that province. Hence Aragon is called almost Aragothia, as Yh. says, through which the Ebro River flows. Its metropolis is called Caesaraugusta.

About Brabant

Brabant is a province on the border of Germany, which is adjacent to Gallia Belgica, having the Rhine to the east, the British Ocean and the Flemish Gulf to the north, Lower Gaul to the west, and Upper Francia to the south. The Ammis Mosa flows through it, and the Scheldt River, entering with the ebb and flow of the sea, irrigates it with many other various springs and fountains. The land is rich in wine in many parts, wooded, adorned with hills, meadows, and shores, with fruit-bearing and wild trees, such as deer, rabbits, boars, hares, and rabbits, having many famous towns and cities. The land is fertile in grains and populous. The people are of elegant stature and beautiful form, warlike and spirited against enemies, but peaceful and quiet among themselves.

About Belgium

Belgium is said to be a province of Gaul in Europe, named after the city of the Belgae, as Yf. says in book IX. It has Germany or the Rhine River to the east, as Orosius says, the Pennine Alps to the southeast, the province of Narbonensis to the south, in which the city of Arles is situated, the province of Lugdunensis to the west, the British Ocean to the northwest, and the island of Britain or England to the north. This region is fertile in grains and fruits, and rich in wine in many places, very populous, fortified with cities and towns. Its people are naturally fierce, as Ys. says in book IX, and spirited, irrigated by rivers and streams, adorned with arable lands and very fertile woods and meadows, full of livestock and cattle, having few monstrous creatures except frogs and snakes, generating few poisonous things. Therefore, the land is generally peaceful and quiet. It is subdivided into many peoples, differing slightly in language.

About Burgundy

Burgundy is a part of Gallia Zenonensis, which extends as far as the Pennine Alps, and is called Burgundy from the "burgi" (fortified places) that the Ostrogoths built there when they entered Italy, i.e., many towns and fortifications. The land is indeed forested and mountainous and pastureland, and wooded in many places, irrigated by waters and rivers and streams, fertile and fruitful in many places, and sterile and marshy in many others. Near the Alps, it is very cold, due to the frequent rains and mountain snows. There are many inhabitants near the Alps who, from frequent use of the mountain air, become goitrous and strumous under the chin. It abounds in wild animals, namely bears, boars, deer, and many others.

About Cantabria

Cantabria is a province of Spain, named after the city and river Hiberus, whose people are stubborn in their inclination to robbery and warfare, and are always ready to endure beatings, as Ys. says in book IX. Adjacent to it is Celtiberia, so called from the Celtic Gauls and the Hiberus.

About Campania

Campania is a province of Italy, located between the Roman territory and Apulia, whose metropolis was once Capua, extracted from the Alban king Silvius, so called from its capacity, because that land receives all the fruits of life. Hence, Capua is called one of the three greatest cities of Campania, Rome and Carthage. From which province Italy was once named Campania. There are many other famous, wealthy, and populous cities belonging to the province of Campania, such as Naples and Pozzuoli, where the baths of Virgil were held in honor. The land abounds in vineyards, grains, and olive trees, wild animals, and fruits of various kinds. There is also another Campania Casaluina, a province of Gallia Zenonensis, whose capital city is Trecentis.

About Dacia

Dacia is a region in Europe, first occupied by the Greek Daci, as it is said, subdivided into many islands and provinces, contiguous to Germany, whose people were once fierce and very warlike, because they dominated the islands of the Butanci and many regions of the Avars. Isidore says in book IX that the Dacians were offspring of the Goths, and they were called Dacians as if they were "dagos de Gothore," i.e., procreated from the race of the Goths. However it may be that they were first procreated, it is certain that they are very populous, of elegant stature, beautiful hair, generally of handsome appearance and form. The people, though fierce in spirit against enemies, are naturally pious and of a peaceful mind towards any innocent person.

About Europe.

Europe is said to be the third part
of the world, named after Europa, the daughter of Agenor,
king of Libya, whom
Jupiter, taking her from Africa, led to Crete
and called the greatest part of the world
by her name, as Yb.li. says.
ximi: But Oro says about Europe, saying
The regions and peoples of Europe begin
from the mountains, Upleis and the Meotidian marshes
which are to the east, descending
to the west along the northern shore of the
ocean as far as Gallia Belgica and the
Rhine River, which is to the ocean, then
to the Danube, which they call the Histrum, which
is directed from the south and to the east
is received by the Pontus. Isidore, however, li.xiij.
says that it begins at the Thanais River, descending
to the west through the northern
ocean as far as the borders of Spain, whose
eastern and southern part rises from the Pontus,
is entirely joined to the great sea
and ends in the islands of Gades. The first
region of Europe is Scythia Minor, which
beginning from the Meotidian marshes, extends through the Danube
and the northern ocean
as far as Germany, as Yfi says.
li. xiiij. And this land, because of the barbarian
peoples, is specifically called barbarian.
And there are peoples in the universe, as Oro says.
lijij: Among whom the first is Alania
which extends to the Meon Des marshes. Py-
gothia. Then Dacia. And after Germany
then Gaul. And Butama Island and Orca-
des and many islands, finally Spain Minor
in whose borders Europe ends from
the western parts. But from the
superior part it has many and great regions, namely Pannonia, Moesia, Thra-
cia, Greece with its borders: Italy
with its islands and its extremities: This small
part of the world, even if it is smaller than Asia, is still
more numerous in population and noble
in generosity. For the peoples, as Pli says, are greater in body,
stronger in spirit, bolder in mind,
more beautiful in form and appearance
than the regions of Asia or Africa, the sun's
solar heat has burned, because of its per-
manence over those Africans, it has effected
consuming humors, shorter in body,
greater in face, curlier in hair, and
because of the evaporation of spirits through ap-
propriate pores, less effective in mind. On the other hand
the opposite is true among the northern peoples. Aa-
from the cold, the pores are blocked externally,
humors are generated in the body and
men become more corpulent. And from
the cold itself, which is the mother of whiteness,
and from the reflection of vapor and spirits
to the interior, they become hotter inten-
sely and consequently more audacious. Ho-
wever, the men of Asia, whose region is closer
from the middle east, are like this
as Pliny says

About Hellas

Hellas, or Ellas, is a province in Greece
in Europe, first named after King Hellen,
Deucalion's son, from whom the Greeks were first
called Hellenes: and in this province is the Attic
people, where once was the city of Athens,
mother of the liberal arts: nurse of philoso-
phers. Which once had nothing
Greece was more famous, nothing more noble, to which
the province of Achaia is nearby,
as Ysid says. li. xiiij. Of this Hellas
there is a double province, namely Boeotia and
Peloponnese: about the first, that is, Boeotia, above
it has been said: about the other it will be said later: To this
Hellas adjoins Hellespontus: and there are many
things there that are very wonderful, as Pli says. li. vi.c. iij-
Next to Hellespontus, he says, there is a race of men
called Trages Pergamei,
whom they call Ophioges, whose contract
heals snake bites. And with only the hand

applied, they extract what is deadly
venom. Varro also says that there are still
some there whose saliva heals
against the bites of snakes and serpents: It is
however, Hellespontus, a bay of the Mediterranean
sea, as Yside says. hi. xiij. in the north
it is narrow: which with great windings
next to Greece and Hilincu in narrow
seven stadia is constricted. Where Xerxes
the king made a bridge of ships and thus into Greece
he terrified. But the water widens and
makes Propontis. which soon in fifty
paces is constricted. The bay is named
after Helle, the sister of Fuxi, who
fleeing her stepmother's wickedness, fell into the sea
re and died. Whose fall gave the name
to Hellespontus, both to the sea and to the tower in the circuit

About Franconia

Franconia is a German province
in Europe, named after the Franks of that
region
whose metropolis is called Herbipolis.
Situated above the Main River. From the east
it has Thuringia and Saxony. From the south
the Danube and Bavaria. From the west
Swabia and Alsace: from the north the Rhenish
province, whose metropolis is
Mainz, situated above the Rhine, which the Moselle
enters there. But it is a land
very good in terms of grains and vineyards, filled
with strong towns and fortified castles and
very populous

About France

France, which is also called Gaul, was first
named after the German Franks, as it is said,
or from Sfaco the executioner, who suc-
ceeded in the region of Paris: from whom the executioners
were privileged before the king. And from that
Frank, France is named, from the east
it has the limit of the Rhine River and Ger-
many. From the south it has the Pennine Alps
from the south Narbonne. From the northwest the British Ocean
Ocean. From the north the British Island
Island. And this France, once Gallia
Belgica, is called after the city that is called Belgis
called, as Ysid says. li. xiin & Oro. This
France has a fertile soil,
fertile in trees,

vines, fruits, and grains,
remarkable for the abundance of rivers and fountains,
which two very noble rivers flow through
in its extremities, namely the Rhone
and the Rhine. as Ys says. li. xiiij. Stones
and quarries it has noble and for co-
building buildings, unique, especially
the Parisian soil. Because in gypsum, or
vitriol, commonly called plaster by the inhabitants,
it excels. For the earth is vitreous
and transparent, transformed by mineral virtue into stone,
which stone, burned and with
water tempered, is converted into cement,
whence walls and buildings are made. Te-
studines and multiple pavements and
this kind of cement, placed in work and
molded or placed: in the manner of
stone it hardens again. And since it has many
France has noble and famous
cities, Paris among all deservedly
obtains the principality. Just as once
the city of Athens, mother of the liberal arts
arts and sciences: nurse of peoples and source
of all sciences, decorated Greece
Thus Paris in our times not only
France, but also the rest of all of Europe
has sublimated in science and in morals.
As if the mother of wisdom, from
all parts of the world coming
it gathers. To all in necessities it sub-
vents. Peacefully it governs all and as if
the cultivator of truth, it shows itself to the wise and un-
wise: A rich city,
powerful in riches and resources: rejoicing in peace,
air and river suitable for philosophers,
fields, meadows and monasteries
beautiful, refreshing and restoring the eyes in study.
Suitable for students in terms of houses and do-
miciles. And Melun is sufficient for the refection and
reception of all others frequently
visiting it, surpassing all other cities in these similar things

About Flanders

Flanders is a province of Gallia
Belgica, situated next to the shore of the ocean
constituted, having Germany from the east of
the British Island from the north:
from the west the Gallic Sea: from the south
Gaul Senonensis and Burgundy:
This province, although small in terms of land area,
is nevertheless filled with many singular goods.
For it is a land very rich in pastures,
and full of herds and cattle,
very famous for its noble towns and ports.
famous for its rivers, namely the Scheldt and the Lys,
irrigated and perfused on all sides. Its people are
elegant in body and robust: prolific
in offspring and in substance, rich in the riches of all
merchants, generally beautiful in face and
decorated, pious in affection, gentle in speech,
mature in gesture, honest in habit,
peaceful towards domestic people, very faithful towards
strangers: excellent in art and ingenuity
in woolen work, whose industry
the great part of the world is helped in wool processing, transforming
the precious wool that
England communicates to it into noble cloths,
it administers many regions by sea and land.
But it is a flat and fertile land
in many places, indeed having many
trees, not mountainous, many forests,
enjoying some marshy places
in which they dig clods that supply the lack of forests
for fuel: for from these a hot and strong
fire is usually made, more effective than from wood:
but more mutable and lively in terms of ash,
more abundant in terms of redolence and odors.

About Frisia

Frisia is a province in the lower
parts of Germany above
the shore of the ocean, constituted in a very long tract,
which begins at the end of the Rhine and ends at the Danish Sea.
The inhabitants of which are called Frisians
by the Germans. But in habit
and in morals they differ greatly. Aa-
men are almost all tonsured in a circular hairstyle,
who, the more noble they are, the more
highly circumcised they gloriously considered themselves.
But it is a people strong in spirit,
tall in body, severe in mind and fiercer
in body than the English, using iron spears
for arrows. The land is flat, pasture-rich, marshy
and grassy, lacking wood, for fuel
they often use bituminous turfs or dried cow dung.
Indeed, the people are free, not subject to another lord
outside their own nation.
They expose themselves to death for the sake of freedom,
and they prefer death to the yoke of op-
pressive servitude. Therefore, they reject military dignities
and do not allow anyone among themselves to assume
a sublime position under a military title.
However, they are subject to judges whom they elect annually
from themselves, who order and dispose of the republic among themselves:
they are very zealous for chastity and punish all impiety
severely. They keep their sons and daughters
chaste until almost the end of adolescence,
from which it follows that at that time, given in marriage, their
offspring are born complete and robust

About Galatia

Galatia is a region in Europe, from
the ancient peoples of Gaul, from
whom it was occupied, as Yh says.
ix. &. xiiij: for the Gauls, called by the king of Bithynia
to help, divided the kingdom with him,
having obtained victory. And thus from then on,
mixed with the Greeks, first Gallo-Greeks, now
however, from the ancient name of the Gauls, Gal-
li are called and their region is called Galatia.
But it is a very wide and fertile region
Europe contains a large part
which is now called Ruthenia by many

About Gaul

Gaul of Europe is a province between
the Pyrenees Mountains and the British
Ocean. Which also
is so named from the whiteness of the people:
galla in Greek means milk. And Ion-
sibilla calls those Gauls, i.e. white, saying.
then milky necks are connected with gold
for there is a diversity of sky and
faces of men and colors, diversities of minds
and quantities of bodies.
Hence Rome generates serious people, Greece
light people: Africa changeable people. Gaul naturally
fierce, also sharp in mind, as Ind says.
liixihee region from the east has Germa-
ny. From the west Spain. From the south
Italy, from the north, however, it is bounded by the British
Ocean, as Isidore says.
This was once tripartite, namely
Belgica, Celtica and Togata, but these provinces
the Franks now inhabit, from whom France
is called, about which above about the Franks and

About Greece

Greece is called after the Greek king
who inhabited that region
and named it after his name: as
Ys says. li xiij. These are its provinces sep-
ten from the west: Dalmatia: then Epi-
rus. Then Hellas, then Thessaly, then Mace-
donia: and then Achaia. And two in the sea:
namely Crete and the Cyclades. But it is a region
very wide, named by many other names:
rich in the riches of land and sea:
mistress of many kingdoms. Mu-
cie nutux. mother of philosophy. Muen-
tux of all good things: mistress of arts
Whose people were once very warlike, endowed
with the gift of wisdom and science: very eloquent in speech,
subject to laws: pious towards
strangers: peaceful towards the inhabitants and
quiet domestic people. Against the threats of enemies
very liberal and hostile: Varro narrates about the praises of the Greeks

About Galicia

Galicia is a province in Spain
named so from the whiteness of the people of the region.
They are said to be whiter than all other
parts of the Spaniards. The land is said to be fertile,
close to the ocean, abounding in many good things.
They believe that they have Greek origins: whence also
they are strong in nature and mind, as Ys says. li. ix.
for after the end of the Trojan War, many
from the Greeks went to Gaul and remain there
until the present time

About Gothia

Gothia of Scythia Minor is a province
in Europe, which, as it is believed, is called after Magog,
the son of Japheth, as Yb says. li-
ix.. Whence he says that the ancients named those Navones
more Getae than Goths:
and it was once a strong people,
huge in body, most terrible in the kind of arms.
From whose offspring the greatest
part of Europe and Asia is believed to be populated:
for their offspring are the Dacians and
many other nations from the western part
Getuli in Africa, Amazons in Asia from the Gothic
progeny proceeded, as Iden says.
li. ix. & xiiij: But even today the region is very wide,
having Norway and Dacia from the north, in its other sides
it is surrounded by the ocean. To this region
adjoins a certain island named Gotlan-
dia: called the land from the Goths because it was inhabited by the Goths in ancient times:
and it is a fertile island, very rich in pastures and fish
and very busy with many kinds of merchandise.
For various skins and other copies from various regions
are brought by ship to that island. And from there
into Gaul: into Germany. into Britain
and Spain they lead through the ocean

About Italy

Italy is a great region in Eu-
rope: occupied by the Greek people
in ancient times: and therefore it is called Magna Graecia:
as Ys says. li. xiij then
it was called Saturnia after King Saturn, because
Saturn, expelled from his seats by Jupiter,
lay hidden there. Finally, from Italus, a Sicilian
king reigning there, Italy is called: whose
site extends more in length than in la-
titude: it extends to the sharp south. From the south
it is bounded by the Tyrrhenian Sea: from the north by the Adriatic
sea, from the west by the ridges of the Alps.
The land is most beautiful in all things:
very heavy with the fertility of the soil: the abundance of pasture.
It has noble lakes
such as Venatus, Avernus, and Lucernus.
many other noble rivers. namely
Endanus or Padus. Tiber: Henia nun-
and the like. It generates gems, namely
Ligurian agate. pearls: and co-
rallum, it also bears serpents. and the lynx
beast: and many other singular species of birds
This region is called Hesperia:
from the star Hesperus. just as Spain also. eo

that the Greeks, sailing into Italy and Spain,
considered that star: or
it is called Hesperia Ultima: because it is placed
in the last place under the west: Up to here
yb.li xiiij Among all the European
western regions, Italy obtains
the principality: For it has noble
islands and very famous ports,
provinces rich in all riches. ci-
very prolific cities: fortified with walls, ditches
and other warlike preparations.
abounding in gold and silver in abundance
two decnn seat Pliny's famous and pro-
powerful particular regions besides the islands
it contains. About which the same treats more diffusely
It is however against the east
north and west by the highest
Alps and mountain ridges surrounded on all sides
em cta from which noble rivers arise
rivers, namely the Rhine and the Danube, which
flow through Germany and the Rhone with the Seine
and many others that flow around Gaul, especially
Lugdunensis. and Narbonensis Belgica in
many places.

About Carinthia.

Carinthia is a moderate province
of Germany in Europe: having
Pannonia from the east, from
the west Italy. the Danube from the north
orione: Dalmatia and Salmomana from the south
tridie. It rises with mountains in one part and
ends in the Adriatic Sea in another. And it is
a fertile land in many places: abounding
in wild animals, cattle and livestock, a warlike people
and strong. fortified in towns and in ca-
stris. But it is a land cold in many places because of the proximity of the Alps
and frequent with rivers. Where, because of the coldness of the waters
from many solitudes around the mountains
very many are said to be strumous. There
are many bison: and other wonderful and wild beasts
rabile and wild. There are also edible dormice
who, although they seem to be of
the genus of mice: they are eaten however, whose
flesh is tasty and fatty

About Lacedaemonia

Lace de moma, which is also called
Sparta, is a province in the borders of Greece
next to Thrace in
Europe, whose inhabitants are called Lacedaemonians
from a certain Lacedaemon, son of Semome.
These Lacedaemonians, fearing the length
of the war against the Messenians, ordered that
their virgins should lie with the soldiers, leaving their husbands at home
thus from the promiscuous intercourse of vir-
gins many men were born, who were called Spartans from the mother's loss of modesty, as Di-
cit Ysi dorus libro. x.

About Livonia

Livonia is a province of the Scythian region
special. which with a long sea
interconnection is divided from the borders of Germany
many. Whose inhabitants were called Livonians in ancient times:
whose rite was wonderful. before they were forced by the Germans
from the culture of demons to the faith and worship of God.
For they worshiped many gods, from whom they sought responses
from demons with profane and sacrilegious sacrifices, they served auguries and divinations:
they did not hand over the corpses of the dead to the tomb
But after making a very large pyre for the people
they burned them to ashes: after death, however, they dressed their friends in new clothes
they dressed them so that they could provide them with sheep and oxen and even other animals
many provisions. assigning servants and maids to them
with other things, burning them together with the dead and other things, believing that
they would happily reach a certain joyful region
and that they would find their homeland there with livestock and servants, because of the great
multitude of combustions of happiness and temporal joy: This
homeland, fascinated by such an ancient error of demons
time, now in a large part with many regions subject
or annexed, by the preceding divine grace
and the cooperating power of the Germans, is now believed to be freed from the aforementioned errors

about Lorraine

Lorraine is the last and final
province of Germany, named after King
Lothair. This from the east has
Rhetia or Brabant, from the south
the Rhine and Alsace: from the west
Gaul Senonensis: from the north Gaul
Belgica: the Meuse River flows through this.
In this the city of Metz is located: But it is
a region fruitful in many places, rich in vineyards
irrigated with fountains and rivers, mountainous
forested, wooded: rich in livestock
and herds, the people are mixed from
Gauls and Germans. It has wonderful and medicinal
fountains, from whose drink
various languors are healed-
about Lusitania
Lusitania of Spain is a province
Paasim River: and Uagia oppidum. And it is a region rich in metals
containing gold and silver, iron
and white and black lead, as Pliny says
book vij ca.xxxi-

About Macedonia

Macedonia was initially named Emacia after King Emacius, but Maceto, the grandson of Decalion, after he held the principality there, changed the name and called it Macedonia after his own name, as Ys says in book 14. It is bordered by the Aegean Sea to the east, Achaea to the south, Dalmatia to the west, and Moesia to the north, as the same author says. It was the homeland of Alexander the Great and a region very rich in gold, veins, and silver.
In the same province is Mount Olympus, which rises to such a great height that neither clouds, winds, nor rain are felt at its summit, as the same author says. Regarding Macedonia, Pliny says in book 3, chapter 21: Macedonia was formerly called Emacia, situated in the middle of the lands. It has crossed Asia, Armenia, Iberia, Almamana, Cappadocia, China, Egypt, Taurus, and Caucasus. It was dominant in Bactria, Media, and Persia and possessed the entire Orient. This, namely, the nurse of India, is praised through the traces of Liber Pater and Hercules.

This is that Macedonia whose 70 cities Paulus Aemilius, the emperor, plundered and sold in one day, as the same author says.

About Magnesia

Magnesia is a province of Greece, located between Thessaly and Macedonia, containing many peoples, towns, and cities, as Pliny says in book 4, chapter 10.

About Moesia

Moesia is named from the abundance of its produce. It is the first province that the Danube encloses up to the Mediterranean Sea, as Ys says in book 14. It is bounded by the mouths of the Danube to the north, Thrace to the east, Macedonia to the south, and Histria to the west, as the same author says. It is a region containing many peoples, towns, and cities, abundant in fruits, rich in minerals, stones, and metals.

About Media

Media is named after King Medus, who first attacked that province. Media is bordered by the Parthian kingdoms to the west, Armenia to the north, the Caspian and Judean mountains to the east, and Persia to the south. This region alone produces the Median tree, which no other region grows, as Ys says in book 94. It is a very wealthy region, irrigated by many rivers, distinguished by cities and towns, densely populated by many peoples, whose kings anciently conquered great Babylon and the Chaldean empire. The inhabitants of this region, together with the Persians, crossed the sea to Africa and mixed with the Libyans, whom the Libyans, with corrupted language and barbarous speech, called Moors, although Moors are called "mauri" from their dark color in Greek, or "sievo-demissena"

About Missena

Missena is a province of Germany, named after the city that is called Missena, connected to Bohemia and Poland in the east, with Bavaria in the south, with Raetia and Tyrol in the west, and in the north

and it is a wide and spacious land, now flat, now mountainous, very fertile and pasture-rich, irrigated by many waters. The noble river Elbe, for the greater part, flows through its length, it has strong cities, fortified towns and castles, whose people are generally rich in wealth, namely in fruits, livestock, and metals. And although it is a people of great strength, beauty, and elegant stature, it is a kind and peaceful people by nature, having many Germans in all its borders.

About Norway

Norway is a very famous province in Europe, almost entirely surrounded by the sea, located under the north, bordering the kingdoms of the Goths. It is divided from Gothia on the south and east by a certain river that is called Elbe. It is very harsh and extremely cold, wooded and forested, whose inhabitants live more from fishing and hunting than from bread. For grain is rarely found there due to the great cold. There are many animals there, such as white bears; there are also beavers there, which are said to be castors; there are many and monstrous mice there. For there are springs there by which everything placed in them, whether wood or structure, is transformed into stone. In the middle of the northern part, the sun does not appear to set in the summer interval for several days, nor does the sun appear there for as many days at the winter solstice; therefore, at that time, the inhabitants of the land must work with candles; it is devoid of wheat and oil, from which it is adorned. But the people are of great body and stature and beautiful form, and of great strength and robust; they are strong pirates and of great animosity. It has Galicia to the east, Iceland to the north, where the sea is perpetually frozen, the Iberian Ocean and the British Ocean to the west, and is bordered by the borders of Dacia and Gothia to the south.

About Normandy

Normandy, which is also called Neustria, is named after the Normans themselves, who, coming by ship from Norway, seized the coast of Gaul, who eventually called the province inhabited in the circuit Normandy. It has the British Ocean to the east, the Aquitanian Gulf to the west, Gaul to the south, and the Ocean to the north. But its soil is fruitful and rich, distinguished by fields, forests, and meadows, noble in harbors, rich in wild animals and livestock, very strong in noble cities and towns, whose metropolis is called Rouen, a noble city on the river that is called Seine, whose people are populous, strong, and warlike, urban in habit, modest in affection, pious in speech, peaceful in conduct.

About Narbonne

Narbonne is a province, as Pliny says in book 2, chapter 6, and is called the part of Gaul that borders the Mediterranean Sea, which is now called Gallia Bracata, which is separated from Italy by the Narbo River and the Alps. No province is to be preferred to it in the cultivation of vineyards and the abundance of wealth, in short, it should be called Italy rather than a province. It has very noble rivers, among which the Rhone, the most fertile river of Gaul, rushing from the Alps, flows past the province of Narbonne. It has many lakes and several ports and many promontories, among which Marseille holds the chief place. The entire length of the province of Narbonne contains three hundred and seventy thousand paces, as Agrippa reports. So far Pliny.

About Holland

Holland is a certain modest province located near the mouths of the Rhine, where it enters the sea, bordering Brabant to the south, neighboring Frisia to the east, connected to the British Isles to the west, contiguous to Lower Belgic Gaul to the north, and to Flanders to the west.

It is a marshy and watery land, almost like an island, surrounded on all sides by arms of the sea and the Rhine River, having lakes and ponds and very good pastures, and therefore it is filled with herds of livestock and animals. Its soil is very fruitful in many places, and in many places wooded. It has many and useful hunting grounds. It is also very bituminous in many places, from which material suitable for nourishing fire is formed. And it is a land very rich in wealth that passes through the sea and through the rivers, whose capital city is called Utrecht in Latin. But it is called Striech in the language of the Germans. For it belongs to Germany in terms of its location, in terms of its customs, and in terms of its dominion, and also in terms of its language. Whose people are elegant in body, robust in strength, bold in spirit, beautiful in face, honest in morals, devoted to God, faithful to men, and peaceful, less inclined to plunder and robbery than other German nations.

About Pannonia

Pannonia, which is also called Hungary
Pannonia is a province of Europe, which, once occupied by the Huns, is commonly called Hungary by the same people. It is twofold, namely major and minor. The major one is located beyond the Maeotian marshes. From there, the Huns, initially going out for the sake of hunting, and following the tracks of deer and beasts through very long spaces of marshes and land, finally found the land of Pannonia. Returning to their own, having gathered an army, they returned to Pannonia and, having expelled the inhabitants, gave the name to the people and the country from their original origin, as Herodotus narrates. But this province is part of Moesia, which the Danube River flows past and irrigates, as Ys says in books 14 and 16. It has Galicia to the east, Greece to the south, Dalmatia and Italy to the west, and Germany to the north, as the same author says.

It is a very spacious and very fertile land, very rich in mountains and forests, irrigated by many rivers and waters, very rich in veins of gold and other metals. It has very large mountains in which various kinds of marble are found. Also, excellent salt is dug out in certain mountains. Pannonia is filled with wild animals and livestock because of its very lush pastures. Its soil is also very fruitful and wine-bearing in many places, and within itself it contains many peoples differing not only in language, but also in customs and life in many ways, as the same Herodotus says. He says, however, in book 14, that Pannonia is named after the Pannonian Alps, by which it is bordered from Italy. The region is strong and joyful in soil, and is surrounded by three rivers, namely the Danube, the Sava, and the Tisza. It has Moesia to the east, Histria to the east, and the Alps to the south, and Belgic Gaul to the west, and the Danube as a border to the north, which flows past Germany. This is called Hester and they call the land Histria which flows around next to Pannonia.

About Pyrenees
The Pyrenees is a province in Europe, a high and mountainous land, whose mountains are called the Pyrenees, and they extend from the south towards the west, dividing the largest regions from each other. For the Pyrenean Alps divide between Spain and Gaul, both Narbonne and also Lyon. It has Germany to the east, Italy to the south, Spain to the west, and Gaul to the north. The Pyrenees are said to be named from the frequent strikes of lightning, for "pir" in Greek is "ignis" in Latin. The Pyrenean mountains are frequently shaken by lightning strikes, as Ys says in book 14, chapter on mountains. The Pyrenees is full of many and large rivers, long and steep, a mother of very large forests, a nurse of wild animals and a home of many animals, containing veins of metals, having strong fortifications of cities and castles, nurturing many and diverse

both in language and in customs, nations of peoples, as Herodotus narrates.

About Pygmy

Pygmy is a region in India towards the east, located near the mountainous ocean, in which pygmies live, men small in body, scarcely a cubit tall, as Pliny and Ys say, who generate in the fourth year and grow old in the seventh. These, having gathered an army, ride on rams and fight against cranes, breaking their eggs and nests, lest enemies multiply against them, as the same Pliny says in book 5, chapter on monstrous men of India: look above.

About Poitou

Poitou is a province of Narbonne Gaul, which the Picts, Angles, and Scots, attacking by ship, inhabited in ancient times, and finally left the name to the region and the people from their ancient lineage, as the historian Herodotus narrates, who, making a fleet from British ships, moved the Aquitanian Gulf of the ocean and finally, against the inhabitants, unless by warlike decision, seizing the place and the country, named the town of Poitiers from the Picts, as it is said by the same Herodotus, they built and called the long border of the country Poitou. This province, stretched along the long ocean sea, has Touraine, which the Liger flows past, to the east, the Spanish to the south, the British Ocean to the north, and Lesser Britain in the Aquitanian Gulf to the west. This country is a very famous little province, as the same narrates. For the soil is said to have much fertile soil, productive of almost all fruits, and a nourisher of multiple fruits, it is wine-bearing and fruitful, and very rich in the good things that the earth produces, distinguished by sea ports, irrigated by cities and towns, rivers and springs, it is very pleasant with fields, meadows, and forests, and around the maritime parts it is fortified with rocks and cliffs, as in the town of La Rochelle or the castle, to which access is scarcely had because of the location of the place and the narrowness of the strait, as the same says, whose people are mixed in language and customs with the provinces of Gaul. And therefore, although from the first Picts, the nations of that race have this, that they are strong by nature, elegant in body, they have contracted this from the Gauls with whom they are mixed, that they are fierce in spirit and sharper in intellect than other races, nor is it surprising, as Ys says in book 9, that the diversity of the sky, the faces and colors of men, the sizes of bodies, the air and diversities exist. Therefore, we see that the Romans are heavy, the Greeks are light, the Africans are changeable, the Gauls are fierce by nature and sharper in intellect, which the nature of the climates makes one, as it is said there. And therefore the Pictish people are robust in body, beautiful in face, bold in spirit, as it is said, cunning in intellect and astute, as Herodotus recounts.

About Picardy

Picardy is a province of Belgic Gaul, named after a certain town or castle of Ponticus, as the same says about the regions in the description in Herodotus. For the town which is now called Pychen, in that border of the land up to the British Ocean, Phibern is believed to have anciently obtained dominion, from whom the entire people of that country is believed to have been named in the future. But their land is very productive of fruits and fruits, irrigated by springs and rivers, abundant in offspring, fortified by noble cities and castles, very strong and famous towns, as are the Belgians, or Beauvais, and Amiens, Arras, Mons, Tournai, as the same says. But the province already mentioned has the Rhine River of Germany to the east, Upper Gaul to the south, the Gallic Ocean to the west, Greater Britain or England to the north. But Picardy is twofold, namely the upper, which is more Gallic, as they say, the other lower, which is closer to Flanders and Raetia,

or connected to Brabant, and is called Hainaut. The people of both countries are elegant in stature, decent and beautiful in face, bold in spirit, light and docile in intellect, clear in intellect, pious in affection, gross in language, more avaricious than the nations of Gaul.

About Raetia

Raetia is a province of the Rhine, a region which the Rhine flows around and is named after it, because it is located next to the Rhine, as Ys says in book 14, and it is a land having many cities and towns very strong. Whose soil is fruitful and wine-bearing in many places. A strong and spirited people, having agreement in life and in customs with the Germans.

About Nvalia

Nvalia is a province, once barbarian, distant from Dacia, but now subject to the pious kingdom of Dacia, whose part is commonly called Vroma, named from its greenness, because it is grassy and pasture-rich, wooded in many places, whose soil is fruitful in the middle, irrigated by waters and ponds, fertile in fish and lakes, having many flocks of sheep and herds. Bordering on the parts of Scythia, it is separated from the regions of Norway and Irregard by the river which is called Arva, as Herodotus says.

About Incouia
Incouia is a certain modest land located near the city of Mainz, stretched out over the banks of the Rhine between the mountains and up to the town which is called Bingen, from which it is called Rincouia from the Rhine which flows back through its middle. And although it is a modest land, on both banks of the Rhine up to the mountain peaks, it is wonderfully pleasant and fertile, of such great beauty and such incredible fertility that it delights and refreshes both the inhabitants and even those passing by the bank, as if it were a garden of delights. For it has such a sweet soil and such a rich one,

that it bears and produces fruits and grains with wonderful fertility and speed. In that same field, fruit-bearing trees of various kinds are planted and nuts grow, and yet because of such a multitude of fruits, it does not omit to bear grains. Even the diversity of trees does not hinder the vineyards, but rather one and the same corner bears grains and wines, nuts and apples, pears and many other kinds of fruits. Hot and medicinal springs necessary for bodies arise there from the bowels of the earth. It has many other conveniences necessary for life, which it would be long to recite one by one.
of the province of the Romans.

About Rome

Rome is the province of the Romans, as Varro says, it is truly the end of the whole world, where it possesses the habitable regions of the age. For the power of the Romans has subdued all the individual parts of the world, nor was there any corner of the world that the army of Rome did not feel with the sword, as the same says. Therefore, it was once part of Italy, anciently named Romulea, named after Romulus, who founded the city of Rome and gave the name to the city and the people, as Ys says in book 20, where it is added that it was first called Saturnia after King Saturn, who first taught the inhabitants to cultivate the land, and they called him Saturn because of his abundance of wealth, and finally they worshiped him as a god in the number of the stars. But under King Alatmo they were called Latins, who afterwards were called Romans from Romulus enlarging and fortifying the city of Rome, and who were afterwards called Quinctii, because Romulus was called Quinctus, who always used a spear, which is called "quins" in the Sabine language, as Ys says in book 9, in the chapter on the naming of peoples. But the pen is not sufficient to fully describe the praises of this kingdom and its kings, nor does any book comprehend the magnificent works of the Romans. If anyone delights to read about the virtues of the acts of the Romans for the sake of imitation, let him read in the first book, chapter 7, where their wonderful virtues are briefly recounted.

About Romania

Romania is called the new race of Romans. For "nea" in Greek means "nova" or "novum" in Latin. For from that time when Constantine transferred the seat of the Roman Empire from Rome to Constantinople, a city of Thrace, the entire region of the Greeks was called Romania, that is, New Rome, as Rabanus says. Therefore, even today the Greeks do not commonly call themselves Greeks, but rather Romans: look above about Greece in letter G, where many things are repeated about the Greeks.

About Sambia

Sambia is a province of Moesia in lower Europe, located in Scythia, as if it were in the middle between the Pratenes, Estenes, Ofilians, and Atrones, all of whom were anciently under the power of the Goths, as Varro narrates: similarly Herodotus inhabits the shores of the ocean, making promontories and bays against the sides of the north, as the same says. But Sambia is a fertile land in soil and productive of fruits, a marshy and wooded land, surrounded by rivers and lakes, a people elegant in body among other barbarians, bold in mind, skilled in art and craft, excelling other nations in the vicinity in plunder.

About Sabandia

Sabandia is said by the ancients to be like a safe and bold way, because in ancient times that way, by the special goodness of the Gauls, was always safe from Italy through the borders and mountains of that country. For there was always supreme justice there. And therefore, as public fame proclaims, those passing through were always free from common plunder and injury. But it is part of the Pyrenees, by whose mountains Italy and Gaul are separated: which look above about the Pyrenean mountains in letter P. And by another name it is called the province of the province.
e Araia

About Saxony 

Saxony is a province in Germany whose inhabitants are said by the Greeks to have contracted their origin, and having arrived by ship from the parts where they now live, and having expelled the Thuringians, who then inhabited up to the coast of the ocean, they obtained it after many battles, and have remained in the same province to this day. For the people have always been very warlike, of elegant form, tall in stature, robust in body, and bold in mind. But Saxony is a land very fertile in soil, very productive of all fruits, fruitful and pasture-rich in mountainous, wooded, and field areas, rich in flocks and herds, rich in silver, copper, and other mines and metals. For it has distinguished mountains from which stones are dug out which, when strongly heated, are converted into the substance of iron. And it has very noble and famous rivers, namely the Weser, the Liiaz, the Elbe, the Saale, and the Mulde, and many others which flow past the land across the Elbe. It has salty springs in many places, from which very white and excellent salt is cooked and prepared. It has many very strong and fortified cities, strong towns, and very strong castles, both in the fields and in the mountains. Near the mountain where copper is dug, a large mountain is found whose stones smell like violets. Also, very beautiful marble is found in certain other mountains, and this especially around the Danube, which stone is now called Saint Michael's stone. There is a very great confluence of wild animals and beasts in those mountains: boars and bears, deer and does. And therefore, many kinds of hunting are practiced in those wooded mountains. These and many other praiseworthy things are found in the regions of Saxony: look above about Germany in letter G and in letter A about Almamana. Saxony also has Bohemia and Poland to the east, Westphalia to the west, Frisia bordering the ocean to the north, and the people of Thuringia and the Franks to the south.

Whose strong and famous people persevere unconquered to this day, as Herodotus says.

About Sclavonia

Sclavonia is part of half of Moesia,
containing regions. The Slavs, Sclavi,
are Bohemians, Poles, Metam-
Wandals, Ruthenians, Dalmatians, and Croats,
all of whom understand each other. And their
appearance is similar in language and
in customs. They differ only in nature.
For some still hold to pagan
rites. Some, however, retain the
rites of the Greeks; others, however, Latin ones.
All these regions, however, are gle-
be optine & messifere & uimifere i mi
tis locis. All these, however, for the greater
part, have their hair cut in a coma. Except for the
Ruthenians and those who are mixed with Teuto-
nics and Latins. And there is a double Sclavonia,
the greater, which is also called Sclavoma, which Dal-
matia preserves in Arinihia; and con-
tains many other regions. These in-
habitants, some occupy the maritime regions, some
inhabit the ridges of mountains and dense groves,
some cultivate and plow the plains. A severe and harsh
people, and uncultured concerning divine worship, leading a life of piracy,
practicing plunder by sea and by land. Especially
those who live near the sea. The other Sclavonia,
the lesser, which extends from the borders of Saxony to the
Prussians, Wandals, having more of their own language
as neighbors and Bohemians. This Sclavonia
is said to be enclosed by Bohemia or Prussia on different sides,
and by the Goths and the Dama: a certain promontory of the sea
ocean. Which sea is divided with whose boundary the lesser Sclavonia ends and begins. This region, however, is
very fruitful and productive, irrigated by rivers
and ponds, wooded and pasture-
rich: with honey, abundance, and milk. A people strong
in body, dedicated to agriculture, and fishing.
More pious towards God and peaceful towards
their neighbor than those who live in the
greater Sclavonia; and this is because of the mixing
and association which they daily have
with the Germans, as Erodocus says.

About Zealand

Zealand is a province, a maritime
land, like an island, surrounded by rivers
and sea straits.
It has Holland to the east,
Flanders to the south, the ocean to the west,
and Britain to the north.
There are many islands there, small and
large, separated from each other by sea straits
and distinctly. And these islands are
fortified with very strong embankments all around
against the force and threat of the sea, of which
the soil is very fertile for crops,
but almost bare for trees.
For trees cannot, because of the
saltiness of the sea, extend their roots.
And therefore, after planting, they quickly fail
and wither. Zealand, however, is very
populous, rich, and diverse.
A people of great stature, strong in body, and
bold in mind, very devoted to the worship of God,
peaceful and quiet among themselves, beneficial to many,
troublesome to none, unless forced to resist the insolence of enemies.

About Senngallia

Senngallia is a modest province
situated beyond the Baltic Sea,
near Osisia and Livonia, located in
Sua Ifenon, so called because it is inhabited
by the Gallatians who occupy it, mixed with the inhabitants of the land;
hence the Senngalli are named, who proceeded from the Gauls or Gallatians and those
peoples. A good and fertile land, abundant
in pastures and meadows.
A barbarous and uncultured people, harsh and savage.

About Senonensis

Senonensis is a province of Gallia Fracore,
having Germany Treverorum from the east,
Upper Burgundy and the Pennine
Mountains from the south, Gallia
Lugdunensis from the west, and Gallia
Belgica from the north. A land of grains, vineyards, and
fruits, diverse in springs, rivers,
and nuts. The Gauls, however, Senonenses,
were once called Senones, because

they had received Xerus into their hospitality. Afterwards
its name was changed, as Ys says, li. ix,
from the city of Senonensis, which city is
their capital. The land, however, is populous,
having many cities and many strong and fortified
towns, which the river Sequana flows past
and irrigates.

About Sicioma

Sicioma was named from King Ficionus of old,
from whom also the kingdom
of the Ficiomori was named; which kingdom
Archas, Ious, and Caliste, sons of Pilastus, having reduced to their power,
named Arcadia from their own name. It was, however,
Arcadia, which is also Sicioma, the son of Archas,
like a plant exposed between the Ionian and Aegean Sea,
having a great river, namely Enmatum. It also produces
albeston stone, which, once lit,
is never extinguished. There, very white
merula is generated, as Ysr says, li. xiij.

About Sicily

Sicily was first named by King Sicanus,
then by
Siculus, Italy, hence Sicily is called, which
was anciently called Trinacria, because of three
promontories, namely Pelorum,
Pacheum, and Libeu. Trinacria, indeed,
is Greek for what is called three quadrates in Latin,
because it is divided into three quadrates. This is
separated from Italy by a narrow strait, facing the African
Sea. A fruitful land,
abundant in gold, penetrable by caves and pipes,
full of winds and sulfur,
whence also the fires of Mount Etna rage.
In whose strait there is Scylla and Charybdis,
by which ships are either swallowed up or
collided. It was once the homeland
of the Cyclops and afterwards the nurse of the Titans,
fertile in grains, first of all lands
processed with the plow for sowing seeds.
It has Syracuse as its principal city,
and the fountain of Arethusa and the Albeus river,
generating a race of horses. In it was first
found the island of comedy, agate
stone from the Agate river. Sicily first
gave coral and the white Sicilian sea.

It generates salts from Agrigentum, which are soluble by fire,
but crackling in waters. The entire circuit is enclosed
by a space of three thousand stadia.
Salustius says that Sicily was joined to Italy,
but the middle space was divided by the force of the sea and torn apart.
Thus far Ys, li. xiij, ca. ij, concerning islands, where
all the above are recited. And Pliny narrates the same.

About Scotland

Scotland is named from the Scottish peoples
by whom it is inhabited, and it is
a promontory in the British island,
whence also it is separated from England to the north by rivers and sea
straits, on the opposite side, surrounded on all sides by the
ocean, by which Scotland is divided from Ireland.
The same people from the beginning, who once
in Ireland, are similar in all things,
in language and in customs and in nature. The
people are light, fierce in spirit, severe
to enemies, loving death almost as much as
servitude, considering it laziness to die in bed,
but in the field, to be killed fighting enemies, they consider it glory
and virtue. A people easily enduring hunger,
and rarely pouring themselves over food before sunset,
using more carmbr lacti-
cinijs, fish, and fruits,
having less use of bread than the British.
And although the people are of elegant figure and
beautiful face generally by nature,
their own habits greatly disfigure them,
or Scottish clothing. They are called Scots
in their own language: from the painted body, as if
cut, because they were anciently
marked with iron needles with ink figures.
As Ys says, li. ix, iij, ca. concerning
the names of peoples: the customs, however, of the
primitive people have changed for the better in many ways from the admixture
with the English in most parts in these
times. Whence whatever is decent and more honest, this has been contracted from the
English. The wild Scots, however, are like the Irish in habit,
in language, and in diet, and in other customs,
they primarily follow their own footsteps, considering it glory,

nay, they despise the customs of others in some way. Whence
each one strives to be superior, and they all
detract, and are always impudent in vices, and
they condemn all, and they reprehend the customs of others.
They do not fear to lie, nor do they esteem anyone
from whatever reason they arise,
whether from the offspring of any virtue
or audacity, except themselves. They rejoice in their own things, they do not love peace. Their
region, as far as the fertility of the soil, the pleasantness of the groves,
the irrigation of rivers and fountains,
the multiplicity of flocks and livestock,
where the shore rejoices in cultivation for
its quantity, nor is it even unequal to the British
soil, as Erodocus says, the most sagacious explorer of the situation of the orb of the lands,
as Pliny recites: inquire above concerning Ireland, I.

About Sweden

Sweden is a region of lower Scythia
in Europe, from which all of Gothia, which
is the largest region among the kingdoms of the Danes and also
the Norici of the northern winds, is named today, having
the Baltic Sea to the east, the British
Ocean to the west, the steep and populous
Noncori to the north, and to the
south it is bounded by the borders of the Dacians.
Sweden, however, which is also called Gothia, is
fruitful as far as the soil is concerned, but without vineyards,
but it recovers other deficiencies in very rich pastures. And in metals:
for besides the riches which that region multiplies from the sea, it surpasses many other regions in wild
animals and livestock, in silver, gold,
and other innumerable things. A very robust people,
whose military power once subdued
almost the entire part of Asia and Europe in many times.
Whom the audacity of the Greeks esteemed to attack in the time of Alexander the Great. Even Julius
Caesar, with his invincible power, having overcome the Gauls,
Allemanni, and Britons, feared to engage with the Dacians
and Goths, Norici, and other northern peoples, as the writers
of history relate, both Greek and
Roman, to whose words faith can and
should be given, in which, as in religious faith, neither reason
can in any way object, as Jerome says.
He says that it is fitting to give faith to the writings and words
of those poets and writers whose relation does not prejudice faith in customs,
nor contradict the truth of the event. From the offspring of these Amazons proceeded, as Oro says, and Ys, li. xiiij.

About Suevia

Suevia is a province of Germanic Renensis
in Europe, whose people
are accustomed to have the greatest dominion
in Germany, as Yb says, li. xiiij.
He also says in the chapter concerning the names of peoples,
li. ix: The Suevi are part of the Germans
in the far north, concerning whom
Lucan also says: He pours forth the blondes from the extreme,
the Suevi from the north, whom
many have believed to have once been villages and
peoples. The Suevi, however, are named from Mount Suevus, which has its origin from the east of Germany,
and they first inhabited the places and borders of that mountain, as Yside says there. Likewise, Vtidem: from the east it has
the Danube with Bavaria, from the west it has
the Rhine with Alsace, from the south it has
the ridge of the Alps with Italy, from the north it has
Franconia, lower Germany.
And there is a double Suevia. The lower extends
against the Rhine, the upper against the Alps
and the Danube. Each is an excellent
and fruitful land, and rich in vineyards in many places,
having very fortified cities, towns,
and castles around the plains and mountains,
rivers and streams, many groves,
grass and pastures of sheep, flocks and herds
around the mountains. It also has iron
and produces silver and metals. A populous people,
militant, strong, bold, and warlike,
tall in body and blond in hair. U. Mcora

About Thrace

Thrace is a province in Greece,
to which Vemens Tiras, son of

Japhet, named Thrace from his own name, as Ys says, li. xiiij; others said that Thrace was named from the fierceness of its inhabitants.
To this, from the east, the city of
Constantinople is opposed; from the north,
Hister extends; from the south,
the sea adheres; from the west,
Macedonia lies beneath. Formerly, diverse
peoples inhabited this region, namely the Massagetae, Sarmatians,
and Scythians, and many other nations.
For it is extensive, and therefore it could contain many nations.
The river Hebrus flows from Thrace, which also touches many barbarous peoples, as di-
ut u h.ximi.

About Thessaly

Thessaly, as Yside says, li. xiiii,
is a province of Greece, named from King Thessalus,
which is connected to Macedonia towards the south.
There are many rivers and
towns in Thessaly, whose capital is called
Thessalonica. There also is Mount Pervasus, once
consecrated to Apollo. Thessaly, however, was
the homeland of Achilles and Ongo Exuus
Iaphitaro, concerning whom it is said that they first
tamed horses with reins, and seemed to be one body
riding on their backs, which is why the centaurs
were feigned for the soldiers of Thessaly, as Ys says, li. xi.m ca. concerning
portents. In Thessaly, solid gold was first
found, and the use of taming horses
was first discovered, as Ys says,
li. xiij. Nd hoc dicit ys.li. inij. quo moysi-
temporibus m thessalia accidit quidedaz
diluuium in quo aquare ingluuies ma-
iorem partem populorum thessale ab-
sumpfit. paucis per refugia montuim-
liberatis: & maxime in monte peruaso
in cuius circuitu deucalion tunc temporis
regno potiebatur. qui funt ratibr ad se
o fugientes suscepit: & sie puasi iugo
eos aluit atque fouit: ppter quod dicut
grecore fabule deucalionem hommum-
genus de lapidibus reparasse. yt dicit
idem ibidem.

About Etruria

Etruria is a province of Italy, located
between the Ligurians and the territories of the Romans,
which is very strongly fortified with difficult
mountain ridges and very high and steep places.
Etruria, however, as Yb says, li. xiiij, is named from the frequency of sacred rites. For in those
parts, in the obsequies of the dead, they were accustomed to burn and offer ancient incense for the sake of religion and devotion, especially
they lamented and bewailed their dead with lamentable affection; they especially burned incense on the altars of the gods, because, as it is said,
the art of divination was first discovered in Etruria, as Dien Yb says. This was once called Mua,
having many illustrious and noble cities. From the west,
against Liguria, it has the city of Pisa,
Siena, Lucca, Florence,
against the north Vreemvetere,
against the east Arezzo, against the south
Turthonam, Pusium, and Assisi, which are very
despoiled and contiguous to Vieme, having
the Adriatic Sea and the March of Ancona from the east,
the Tiber River and Rome from the south,
Milanese Liguria from the west, and from the north
Romano Lam and the province of Padua.
And this region extends much in
length from east to west, having less
latitude from the northern territory
to the southern. The land, however, is mountainous enough and very strong as far as its situation is concerned,
very fertile as far as the soil is concerned, very healthy
as far as the climate is concerned, which the sea enriches in two places,
which also a multitude of springs and lakes
irrigates and fertilizes.
Rivers flow past and decorate it.
The abundance of aromatic Cretan incense growing there singularly ennobles it.
The abundance of hot springs bubbling up in it gratifies and exalts it.

About Thuringia

Thuringia is a province of middle Germany
between the Saxon people
and the Franks and Westphalians.
For it has Bohemians and Saxons from
the east, Franks and Bavarians from the south,
Suevi and Alsatians from the west,
and Renenses from the north. The people, indeed,
have the name of the fatherland, Thuringia, that is, hard
against enemies, especially severe. For it is a
numerous people, of elegant stature,
strong in body, hard and constant in
mind, having the land almost surrounded and fortified
on all sides by mountains. Within, however,
it is a plain, very fruitful and productive,
not even without vines, having many
towns and strong castles, not only in the mountains,
but also throughout the plain, irrigated by rivers and streams,
very healthy in climate, very pleasing in the freedom of pasture,
very full of herds and flocks. In these
mountains, diverse mineral veins and metals, as Dien Erodocus, which in no way
permit secrets to be hidden in Germany, the best unsearched.

About Touraine

Touraine is a province of Gallia Superioris,
part of Aquitaine,
anciently counted. Named from the Turones,
whose venerable Melita thus called it. In which the most holy Martin, a gem of priests, rests. It is situated upon the river Ligerim, which flows past it and irrigates it and richly enriches it. A fruitful, productive, viniferous, and pasture-rich land, very healthy in climate, wooded. A people robust in body and of elegant form, bold in mind, vigorous in work, modest in speech.

About Gascony

Gascony is a province anciently belonging to Aquitaine,
situated above the Pyrenees, named from Wasce,
as Opicus says, as Xh.li. ix says, having the Pyrenees mountains on one of its sides and the ocean sea on the other. On another, indeed, it approaches the plain of the province of Toulouse.
On another, indeed, it approaches the Pictavian peoples. A wooded and forested land,
salty and mountainous. In many of its
parts it is fertile in vineyards, so that it administers a supply of wine to many regions and islands. The river Gethona separates it from Toulouse, which, flowing past Gascony, enters the ocean sea near the metropolis of Bordeaux, the city of the Gascons, as Yb says, li. xi. in the chapter concerning the names of peoples. The Wascei, named from Wacea Opito, inhabit through the ample solitude of the ridge of the Pyrenees mountain, who are also called Wascones, as if Wacerones, with the letter c mutated, whom Pompey, having subdued Spain, hastening to return for the triumph, deposed from the ridges of the Pyrenees and gathered into one town, whence the city received the name Uncon Fenarum, as Dien says, Ys, Pliny, and Herodotus, who recites that the Gascon is light and agile in body, bold in spirit, precipitous and fierce in battles.

About Venice

Venice was called Venetia from of old, a province which, from the shore of the Adriatic Sea, in whose gulf the city of Venice is now situated, extends as far as the river Po, which divides between the cities and borders of upper Liguria and lower, namely between the Paganenses and the Mediolanenses, as the most truthful relator of Lombard and Ligurian history narrates. Indeed, it now holds many noble cities. Ram Vr says, Yfid: li. xvi, Mamma, who is the daughter of Amanto Cirisie, who, after the intent of Thebanus, was founded in Italy, called Umtheba, situated in Venice, which is called Galliatis Alpina. Venice, therefore, is a province of Italy which has had dominion over many lands and cities from ancient times by sea and by land, whose power today extends through the longest stretches of the sea and even into Greece, touches the borders of the Germans as far as Aquilegia, represses and restrains the Dalmatian and Sclavonian piracy, most justly rules the islands and ports, promontories of the sea and gulfs under their dominion, protects the subjects from enemies especially and defends the republic and subjects the civil to just laws, does not dissimulate or permit any sect contrary to divine institutions to remain within its borders.

It would be superfluous to relate the individual probities of this people, since the virtue and power, circumspection and providence, unity of citizens, concord, love of all justice with clemency, of the Venetian race is now known to almost all nations, as the same royal writer of the history of the Lombards says.

About Westphalia

Westphalia is a province of lower Germany, having Saxony from the east, Thuringia and Hesse from the south, the Rhine and Cologne to the west, the ocean and Frisia to the north. It is girded by two very noble rivers on its extremities, namely the Weser and the Rhine. For the Rhine touches it towards the west and north, but the Weser towards the east. This is said in some books to be ancient Saxony, preserving itself pure from all species of fornication, and punishing rapes most strictly, and cultivating honest marriages supremely. Although it was held implicated by pagan superstition until now, as Boniface complained to the king of England. It is a land very wooded, pasture-rich, suitable for feeding flocks and bearing fruits, irrigated by many springs and rivers, famous, namely, for hippia ator rura and many other springs, hills, and mountains, it abounds in metals, fruits, acorns, nuts, and pears, even wild boars, livestock, and cattle, commonly of elegant stature and tall, of comely form and strong in body and bold in mind, it has a copious and wonderfully spirited militia, prompt to arms continually and prepared. It has strong and fortified cities, very strong castles and towns, both in the mountains and in the plains.

About Wuiroma

Wuiroma is a small province
beyond Dacia towards the east,
named from Virore, because it is grassy
and wooded, irrigated by many waters and springs, whose soil is fertile in grains.

A people once barbarous, savage, un-
couth, and uncultured, but now it is equally subject to the kings and laws of the Danes.
The whole land, however, is inhabited equally by Germans and Danes: inquire above in the letter R.

About Rialia

This land is separated from the Nogardore
people and the Catheori by the largest river, which is called Narve.

About Umlandia

Umlandia is a country situated near the mountains of Norway towards the east,
extended upon the shore of the ocean, not very
fertile except in grasses and woods.
Its people are barbarous, rustic, and savage,
occupied with magical arts. Whence also
to those navigating along their shores or waiting near them
for lack of wind, they offer and
sell a saleable wind. They make a globe of thread and, connecting diverse knots in it, they command up to three knots or more to be drawn out of the globe, so that they may have a stronger wind than they want: by which demons, mocking their foolishness, stir up the air and excite a greater or lesser wind, according as they draw out more or fewer knots from the thread. And since they believe such things, they are justly submerged by the judgment of God.

About Iceland

Selandia is the last region in
Europe, located north beyond
Norway: condemned to perpetual ice in a remote
region around it. However, it extends over the vast ocean
of the sea towards the north, where the sea
freezes with immense force: having Scythia Superior to the east,
Norway to the south, the Hibernian Ocean to the west,
and the frozen sea to the north. And this is called Iceland, as if trapped in ice, because there are said to be huge mountains
of frozen ice there. Crystals are found there. In that region there are also
white bears, very large and fierce, who break the ice with their claws and make holes
through which they plunge into the sea. And catching fish under the ice,
they pull them out through the aforementioned holes and carry them to the shore, where they live. The land
is barren as far as crops are concerned, except in a few
places, in whose valleys barley barely grows: only grass and trees
in the places where men live, they bear
and produce: and in those parts it nourishes wild
animals and livestock. Hence, from fishing
and hunting and meats, for the most part
the people of the land live. Sheep cannot live there because of the cold: and therefore,
careless of the skins of wild animals and weasels which
they capture by hunting, they protect themselves against the cold
and cover their bodies. They cannot have other
garments unless they are brought from elsewhere. The people are very corpulent,
robust, and very white, dedicated to fishing and
hunting.

About Africa

Africa, as some
think, is
called as if
'aprica' because the sun
or sky is pure
and open: close
to the horrors of the cold,
it is subject, as
Isidore says in book XIV. Others think that Africa is
named after Affer, son of Abraham by Keturah,
who is said to have led an army towards Libya,
and having defeated the enemies there, settled,
and named his descendants Africans, as
Isidore says in book IX. Africa begins from the borders
of Egypt, going along the meridian through
Ethiopia to the Atlas Mountains;
to the north, however, it is enclosed by the Mediterranean Sea
and ends in the Strait of Gades.
This is said to be the third part of the world,
divided against Asia and Europe. However, it has
many provinces, such as Libya, Cyrenaica,
Tripoli, Byzacium, Carthage,
Mauretania, and Ethiopia, and many
others. Moreover, that part of the world
which is in Africa is larger in space than Asia or Europe.
But for its size, it is richer
and more wonderful in quality. For it is very rich in
gold and gems, similarly in
crops, fruits, and olives. It also produces
the most wonderful species and figures of beasts and men, as will be clear when
the regions of Africa are described by their names.
It is scorched by the burning heat more than other lands,
and by various sandy shores, barren in countless
sandy heaps, it is made sterile. And it is possessed by
lions, hairy tigers, and other wild beasts. And
as will be clear soon.

About Byzacena

The Byzacena region is in Africa,
consisting of two very noble towns,
Soitita and Weabulum, of which
one is called Andromethe, the other
is called Byzantium. This is fertile in fields
and olives. Its soil is so rich that
seeds sown there almost yield a hundredfold
harvest, as Isidore says in book XIV.

About Dedan

Dedan is a region in Ethiopia,
in the western region, as Isidore says
in book IX, abundant in elephants,
ivory, and wood, as the gloss says on
Ezekiel XVII.

About Egypt

Egypt, which was previously called Aeria, from En Gypto,
Danaus' brother, later, when he reigned there,
took its name. This is bounded by the
Syene and the Red Sea to the east,
it has Libya to the west, the Great Sea to the north,
but to the south it recedes inwards,
extending as far as the Ethiopians, as
Isidore says in book XIV. Moreover, it is a region unused to
rains, ignorant of rainfall. The Nile alone, flowing around it, irrigates it and by its
flooding makes it fertile and fruitful.
Hence, fertile in crops, it nourishes a large
part of the lands with wheat and is so abundant in other commodities that
it fills almost the whole world with necessary merchandise.
The end of Egypt is Canopus, so called from Canopus,
Menelaus' helmsman, buried there. So far Isidore, book XIV.
This was first
called Memphis, named after the daughter of Ham,
as Isidore says in book IX. This region has many
particular provinces and very famous
cities, such as Memphis, built by Epaphus, son
of Jupiter, and Taphnes, the metropolis
of Egypt, Heliopolis, Alexandria, and many
others, as Isidore says in book XVI. In short, Africa is double
Egypt, that is, superior and inferior, which extends
lengthwise. To the north of it is
the Arabian Gulf, to the south the ocean.
From the west, from Egypt, the Syene, which moves
to the east, is bounded by the Red Sea,
containing 23 regions. Moreover, there are many deserts in
Upper Egypt, in which there are many
monsters and monstrous animals: there are
leopards and tigers, there are satyrs and basilisks,
horrible asps and serpents. Moreover, in the borders
of Egypt and Ethiopia, near the source of the Tigris,
the head of a well is believed to be, which the Egyptians
call Phuit. There is a certain serpent of the name Caco,
Hephas, which, although in body
is small and in limbs weak and sluggish,
has a very heavy head, because of
which it always drags it to the surface of the earth, a remedy
which has been provided by nature for the safety
of mortals. It is of such great venom
and destructiveness that no one can
look at it directly in the face without immediately
dying without remedy. For such is the nature
of the serpent which is called a basilisk, as Pliny says
in book VIII, chapter XXII. In Egypt there are very many
crocodiles and hippopotami, that is, river
horses, and especially around the streams of the Nile

About Ethiopia

Ethiopia was first
called from the heat of the people,
whom the sun always
burns, as Isidore says in book XV, from
which the color of men is produced. It is
always hot. Moreover, whatever is under
the meridian axis is mountainous around the west,
but sandy around the middle,
but to the eastern region it is mostly desert.
Its site extends from the foot of the Atlas Mountains
to the east as far as the borders of Egypt,
to the south by the ocean, to the north
it is enclosed by the Nile River. It is full of many
peoples of diverse appearance and monstrous face,
horrible, and also full of a multitude of wild beasts and serpents.
There also the rhinoceros, the chameleon, and the basilisk,
huge dragons, from whose brains
gems are extracted, hyacinths and chrysoprase
and topaz, and other gems are often
found in those parts. And cinnamon is
collected there. Moreover, there are two Ethiopias, one
around the rising sun, the other in Mauretania
around the setting sun, and that is more
neighboring to Spain, then Numidia, then the Carthaginian
province, after this Getulia, and
lastly, against the course of the sun, in the south, is
burnt Ethiopia, beyond which fables say
there are Anupedes, as Isidore says in book XV,
whose words about Ethiopia
are inserted here above. He also says in book IX:
The Ethiopians are named after the son of Cush,
from whom they derive their origin. Cush in the Hebrew
language is called Ethiopia. These, once rising from
the Nile River, settled near Egypt
between the Nile and the ocean in the south,
under the vicinity of the sun, whose
neighbors are peoples such as the Hesperians, on the western side,
the Garamantes, and the Troglodytes, and others
about whom Pliny narrates in book V, chapter X.
The Ethiopian peoples are named after a certain black river,
which river is similar in nature to the Nile.
For it produces similar reeds and
papyrus. At the same time as it freezes,
monstrous men thrive in its deserts.
For some always look at the rising and setting sun
with dire imprecation and curse,
wherefore they continually curse the sun
because of its heat, which burns them greatly.
Others, like Troglodytes, dig caves and
inhabit them instead of houses. They eat serpents
and everything that can be eaten, whose
drink is a hiss, which is their voice. Others, like
cattle, are without marriage,
living with women everywhere without law.
Others walk around naked and not occupied
with any exercise, and they are called Graphasantes.
There are also those who are called Blemmyae, said not to have a head,
but to have their mouth and eyes attached and
fixed to their chest. There are also satyrs, who, having only a human figure,
are similar in morals in wretchedness. There are also other wonderful things in Ethiopia, as Iden says, li. vi.exxxi-. He says that there are gentle people among whom all four-legged beasts are born without a navel, and also elephants. There are others who have a dog for a king, divining by its movements what seems right. There are also others who are said to have three or four eyes on their forehead. Not that it is so in nature, but they fix what they use for special sagacity and contemplation. Some of them hunt panthers and lions and live on their flesh, whose king has only one eye in his forehead. Another nation of Ethiopians lives on sun-dried locusts hardened by smoke and sun, and they do not exceed hi-xl years.
About the province of Phoenicia
The Phoenician province is named after Semo, brother of Cathim, who, as Sems, ruled over the Egyptians from the clods of Thebes projected into Sinam near Sidon, and he called Phoenicia after his name. It is there that Tyre is, against which Isaiah speaks, as Isaiah says in li.xiiij. &. ix. This lies from the east to Arabia, from the south to the Red Sea, from the west to the Mediterranean Sea, from the north to Mount Lebanon. Hence the land is most excellent in trees, especially in fruits, and the most fertile land in milk, oil, and honey. The land is mountainous and flat, irrigated by springs and waters. In whose mountains metals of various kinds are mined, hence Getulia.
About Getulia is a province in Africa from the Greeks, which is said to have been named from the Greeks or Goths, as Isaiah says in li. ix, who, with a great army gathered, sailed to the parts of Libya and established their seats there until today, and those who came from the Getae are now called Getuli by a derivative name. And it is thought among the Greeks and Moors that they are related and akin to that Getae, as Isaiah says in li. ix. Next to these lives the Galon people, wandering from the south to the western ocean in deserts and the name gave the name to the island of Gaulon, which is near Ethiopia, where neither snake is born nor snow, as Isaiah says. There are also in the interior of Africa peoples who are called bestial, who are called Garamantes, named after Garamanto, the son of Apollo, who built and constructed the town of Garama there from his name, about whom Pliny says that they are almost removed from the fellowship of humanity.
About Carthage
Carthage is the name of a city and province of Africa in Spain. And it is twofold, greater and lesser, and Nardido founded both, advancing from the shallows on the African shore, he divided it into two urban areas and first named it Carcada in the Phoenician language, which, translated into speech, is called Carthage, and from this city the whole province was later called Carthage. But when this city was very famous and not inferior to Rome, Scipio destroyed and demolished it with the Roman army, as it says there. ki. xvi, which, however, was later built by the Romans, as the same says. There is also another Carthage in true Africa, situated between Byzantium and in the middle, bounded by the Sicilian Sea from the north and extended from the south to the region of the Getuli, whose part is very fertile, very rich in oils and fruits, full of metals. But the more remote part around the immedian is poor in beasts and serpents, and wild asses roam there in great numbers, as Isaiah says in li. xiiij. There also is a multitude of elephants and other beasts, as Pliny says, li: v.c. v..
About Lydia
Lydia is an ancient kingdom which the river Pactolus exalted, enriching the towers with gold; this golden moisture, Dice Barr, because it could not bear two kings, brothers, namely Liddus and Cirrenus, for a short time, Cirrenus, by lot, with a huge multitude, occupied the places of Gaul and named it Cirrenean; but Lydia was known by the name of Liddus, the brother king who had remained in the province. It adjoins Minor Phrygia from the west, having Smyrna as a city from the east, which the river Hellus surrounds, whose fields Pactesus and Hermy flow around, rich in sands, as Isaiah says h. xy-.
About Libya
Libya is a large region in Africa, so called because Libs, i.e., the African wind, blows from there, as Isaiah says in li.xv. Others say that Epscisus, the son of Jupiter, who also founded Nephim in Egypt, begat a daughter named Libian from his wife Casoria, who later possessed the kingdom in Africa, from whose name that region was called Libya thereafter. But Libya is situated at the beginning of Africa, with Egypt to the east, the greater Syrtes and Troglodytes to the west, the Libyan Sea to the north, and Ethiopia and the nations of barbarians and inaccessible solitudes to the south, because they produce fierce beasts, serpents, and dragons that produce basilisks. Up to here Isaiah: li. xv. Libya is a very hot and desolate land, producing many monstrous and poisonous things in various places, and many precious things, such as precious gems, gold and silver in great abundance, wheat, wine and oil, and pairs of aromatic grains. But the first origin of the inhabitants of Libya was contracted from Putenco, the son of Ham. The river running through Libya and the coast is called Puth, and the whole region is called Coputenb, as the gloss says on Gen. xi-d 
About Mauritania.
Mauritania is named from the color of the people, whom the Greeks call Moors of black men's country, just as the Gauls are called from the color of the people, so the Mauni have taken their name from the black color; of whom the first is Stiphensis, who had the town of Stiphi, from which also the region is said to have derived its name. But the other province is Mauretama Caesariensis, which was a colony of the city of Celane and gave the name to the province. Therefore, both provinces, which are joined to each other, have Numidia from the east, the great sea from the north, the river Malva from the west, and Mount Astuxim from the south, which separates the fertile land from the sandy lands lying towards the ocean. The other is Mauretama Tingitana, which is so called from the metropolitan city of Tingi. This is the last part of Africa and rises from the mountains vij, having the river Malva from the east, the strait of Cadiz from the north, the Atlantic Ocean from the west, and the Glansasum peoples wandering to the western ocean from the south. And it is a region that produces very fierce beasts, dragons, and ostriches and elephants. Up to here Isidore, book. xv.
About Numedia
Numedia is a region in Africa contiguous to Carthage. It begins from the river Armifigan and ends at the Cogitanore border, having the lesser Syrtes from the east, tending into the sea in Sardinia from the north, looking towards Mauretama Stipensem from the west, and the Ethiopian peoples from the south. And it is a region rich in fields in many places, where it is wooded it produces wild beasts, where it is cultivated it is steep, horses and wild asses, where it is more barren it is full of serpents and beasts. It produces excellent marble, which is called Numedum, as Isaiah says, li: xv.
About Tupolitana
Tripolitana is a twofold region, one called after Semo from the most famous city of Tripoli, which is the smallest in circuit, but its strength is in defense and walls. The other is Tripolitana in Africa, situated between Pentapolis and Byzantium, so called from the Theban members, i.e., Ozea, Sabine, and Leptis Mag. This has the greater Syrtes and Troglodytes from the east, the Adriatic Sea from the north, Baratum from the west, and the Getuli and Garamantes from the south, extending to the Ethiopian Ocean, as Isaiah says, li.xv.
About Trogadea
Trogadea is a region of Ethiopia whose inhabitants are called Troglodytes, so called because they are so swift that they can overtake beasts by running. This region has a certain island where the best species of myrrh grows, and its purest drop is found there, and it is called myrrh trogoditen from the island in which it grows, as Isidore says, li.xvij. And thus the trifles about the regions end.

About the mountain
A mountain is a swelling of the earth upwards, rising high, touching the rest of the earth with only its foot. Or mountains are said to be so called because they are eminent above other lands, as Aristotle says. Aristotle also says in the book on the properties of the elements that some have said that the earth in the beginning of its composition was round and flat, in which there were no mountains or valleys, because it was spherical in shape like the upper bodies. Hence the cause of mountains and valleys is nothing but the commotion of water, which hollowed out the rare places and mountains were made of the denser parts that could not be hollowed out. But the hollowed places were made into places of hands and rivers. The same also says in the book on meteors that mountains are made when the earth is moved violently, whence the earth is raised up and a mountain is made, just as happens from an aqueduct, hollowing out a deep place and a valley is made. Likewise there, the access and recess of the sea hollows out certain places, raises up others, and mountains are made. And when the sea covered the whole earth, then it washed away certain soft things and left the hard things, and in which places it collected the soft things, certain things also collected with it were dried up and turned into mountains. Therefore, mountains are hard, solid, and compact, erected from the earth towards the sky, and thus they are rooted in the earth; when, however, they are spongy, hollow, cavernous inside, and therefore they attract and flee waters to themselves by reason of emptiness, which, after their cavities have been filled, they emit through the heads of springs, and they are the cause of perpetual flux and the origin and beginning of rivers, as Aristotle says. From which it is clear that cavernous mountains are attractive of water and moisture, and continuously emissive of attracted water. Mountains are also containers of noble metals. From the depths of the mountains veins extract noble metals for us. Mountains are also productive of fruits and aromatics, for because of the purity of the air dominating in the summits of the mountains, purer and sweeter fruits grow in the mountains than in the valleys, although fewer. Mountains also receive the sun's rays more quickly than valleys and retain the illumination they have received longer. Mountains are also generators of vapor and exhalations, from whose aggregation clouds are generated in the air. However, in the highest mountains, as in Olympus, rains rarely generate, as Aristotle says, which is because of the subtlety of the air and the scarcity of vapor; for the vapor is resolved and consumed before it can reach the summit of the mountains. But mountains are more exposed to winds and storms than valleys. And therefore, by reason of coldness, snows are more preserved in the mountains. Winds, he says, are frozen and constricted in the cold mountains. And therefore they dwell more richly in the mountains than in the valleys, as is evident in the Caucasus and in Lebanon and in other similar mountains, which always shine with very dense snows. Mountains also suffer the blows of lightning and thunderbolts more often than valleys, as Isidore says. Hence also the Pyrenees mountains are named from frequent blows of lightning. Pir enne in Greek means fire in Latin. Similarly, the Ceraunian mountains are named from frequent thunderbolts, cefanos in Greek means thunderbolt. as it says there. Likewise, mountains, because they are situated high and sublime, are most suitable for speculation. Hence also those who wish to foresee and beware of the coming of enemies ascend the summits and are accustomed to predict eminent dangers from afar. Mountains also, because they are solid and strong in nature and composition, are most suitable for the construction of castles, hence mansions in the mountains are wont to be strong and safer than others, especially because they cannot be undermined because of the interior hardness, and because of the altitude of the site they cannot be easily ascended. Mountains also, because they are fertile and rich in herbs and pastures, therefore they are suitable for the pasture of sheep and the refreshment of animals; for mountainous pastures and grasses growing in the mountains are healthier and more nutritious for animals than those that grow in the valleys, although they are generally richer. For the nutritive moisture with which herbs and grasses are nourished in the mountains is more subtle and purer than that of the plains. And therefore the heat of heaven more easily digests that humidity and more perfectly converts it into the substance of grasses and fruits, both because of the subtlety of the humidity itself and also because of the purity of the air existing there. Likewise, in the mountains there are taller trees than in the valleys and denser shrubs, therefore mountains are suitable for the habitation of wild animals and the construction of wild birds; wherefore those whom they pursue from the valleys by the hunters flee to the mountains and are safe there.
About Ararat
Ararat is the highest mountain in Armenia, in which the ark rested after the flood, as it says there, and even today the remains of the ark's wood still appear. But the same mountain is called by different names. For Josephus says thus about this mountain: The place, he says, where Noah's ark came out of Armenia is called. For there the provincials still show the remains of the ark's solution. The same Josephus also mentions Bero sus Chaldeus there, narrating thus: It is also said that some part of the ship that came to Armenia around Mount Cardie is still there, and that bitumen falls from it, which men especially use for expiation. Jerome also writes about this and Manasses dam. m. xcvi. of histories h. thus: There is a high mountain in Armenia which is called Baris, in which it is said that many fleeing were freed at the time of the flood, and that someone was carried down from the march to the summit of the mountain at the same time, and that the remains of the wood were preserved there for a long time. The mountains in Armenia are also called Cerannei because of the altitude and frequent percussion of thunderbolts. cerannos in Greek means thunderbolt in Latin, as Isaiah says. These mountains in Armenia and Iberia begin from the Caspian gates to the sources of the river Tigris, as Isaiah says.
About the Alps
The Alps, which are also called Cphei mountains, are in the head of Germany, as Isidore says, which are so called from the perpetual blast of winds and the force of storms. For nipheus in Greek means impetus in Latin. But the Alps are said to be mountains to whose summits one can only reach through the high feet of hills and other minor mountains. In these Alps there are perpetual snows, frequent clouds, the heads and origins of great springs and rivers, beasts and wild birds of many kinds, and especially those kinds of birds whose wings are shining at night, as Isidore says.
About Bethel
The mountains of Bethel are in India near Jerusalem, where the house of the Lord was built under Solomon. But the mountains of Bethel are wooded, fertile with trees, and rich in grasses and aromatic herbs, and therefore stags, roe deer, and fawns are accustomed to frequent the summits of those mountains.
About Caucasus
Caucasus is an oriental mountain extending from India to Taurus through the vanity of the peoples living near those mountains, called by various names, as it says there. But where it rises to a greater height towards the east, it is called Caucasus because of its great whiteness. For in the oriental language Caucasus means whiteness. Hence also those who are near this mountain they called Croachasym: for achasym among them means whiteness or snow, as the same says.
About Carmel
Carmel is a mountain of Judea in which there is a city called Carmel. And there are two Carmels, one in the upper part towards the south, in which Nabal is read to have pastured flocks in the first book of Kings. xxi. The other is Carmel in the lower part of the land facing the sea. Both mountains are fertile in pastures, fruits, and herbs.
About Etna
Etna is a mountain in the island of Sicily from which fire erupts with sulfur, as in Gehenna, as it says there. li.xiij. c. vi. This mountain, from that part where the east wind or the African wind blows, has caves full of sulfur leading down to the sea, which caves, receiving the waves, create a wind which, agitated from the sulfur, generates fire. Hence also a smoky meendium is wont to erupt from this mountain to the earth, as Isaiah says there. In this mountain also certain figures are often said to appear and plaintive groans and voices are often heard by the inhabitants of the land around Mount Etna. Hence it is believed by many that there are penal places there in which some souls are punished, which, however, I do not assert, but blessed Gregory seems to make mention of this in his dialogue.
About Mount Esau
Mount Esau is the same as Mount Seir: in this mountain is the city of Idumea, named from the same, i.e., from Esau, the son of Isaac, who is said to have first established that city, as Jerome says on Obadiah. For Esau is called Esyr and Edon: about this the gloss says above Deut. n. Seir, he says, is a mountain in the land of Edom, which Esau inhabited in the region of Gebalena: where the Chorrei first lived, whom Chodaloamor killed. Gen. xiiij. And this mountain took its name from Esau, hairy and shaggy, Seir, that is, and hairy. The Horrei, men of gigantic stature and enormous bodily deformity, first inhabited this mountain, as the gloss says: super deu. ij, who, having been expelled and destroyed, the sons of Esau inhabited there, as it is said Deut. y. Therefore, the mountains of the land of Edom are very high, so that in some parts they seem to touch the clouds. But those mountains are cavernous and hollow and full of caves, as the gloss says: super abdiam, in which men live in summer, where there is less sun.
About Mount Ephraim
Mount Ephraim was especially called the mountain in the tribe of Ephraim, in which Joshua, the son of Nun, received possession, as is evident in Joshua. xix, in which he built a city and dwelt in it. But among others the mountains of that region were, as Adamantius says, this mountain was remarkable for herbs and trees and more fertile in fruits, more subtle in situation, more beautiful in appearance, healthier in air, more fertile in springs irrigating the mountain, and therefore it was a suitable place for Jesus, who is called Joshua, to dwell in, as the same Adam says. In the same mountain, on the northern side of Mount Joshua, he is buried, as it is said Joshua. xxiiij. That mountain was also near Shechem, which was a city of refuge with its suburbs in Mount Ephraim, as is evident Joshua. xx, where the bones of Joseph were buried, as it is said Joshua vl. In the same mountain also Joshua placed the stone knives or swords with which he circumcised the sons of Israel in the wilderness, as Adam says. super iosue. c.xx. Moreover, Deborah the prophetess dwelt in Mount Ephraim and sat under the palm tree which was between Bethel and Ramah: as is evident Jud. inij. c. For Mount Ephraim had many particular mountains and hills: because all that force of his was very mountainous and wooded in many places, as is evident Joshua. xvy. Likewise, in the same mountain the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeb, were killed, whose heads were brought to Gideon across the Jordan River, as is evident Jud. vij. Samuel the prophet was also born in Ramathan, Mount Ephraim. i reg. i. and he lived there, because Saul the king was first anointed by him in that same place, as is evident in the first book of Kings. x. In the same mountain also Samuel died and was buried in the first book of Kings: xxy-.
About Ebal
Ebal is a mountain across the Jordan, in which six tribes stood after the crossing of the Jordan to say evil to those who would not keep the precepts of the Decalogue: as is evident Deut. xxvi. And it is a mountain, as it is said, cavernous and voraginous, often suffering an earthquake, with which its interpretation agrees. For the wind interprets the abyss: Therefore it was a mountain of malediction and imprecation, in which evils were imprecated on transgressors. It was also reputed a mountain of vileness and abjection. Hence also six more ignoble tribes, namely the sons of the handmaids, were appointed to say evil to the people on Mount Hebal Deut. xvij-
About Hermon
Hermon is a modest mountain situated above the Jordan, which is rich in herbs and pastures. For around its roots or around its foot the river Jordan flows; but around its summit or top it is abundantly moistened with copious dew, and therefore it is decorated and distinguished by the greenness from the influence of dew and water, and therefore the cattle that were to be sacrificed to the Lord and offered were nourished there. And because the animals fattened from the dew, rivers, and herbs of that kind of mountain were offered on Mount Zion, that is, in the atrium of the temple. Therefore it is said that the Hebrews say through the prophet that the dew of Hermon descends on Mount Zion, which could not be done literally because Mount Lyon is higher than Mount Hermon. Moreover, it was very far away from it: therefore the dew of Mount Hermon is said to have ascended to Zion because the fatness and fat of the animals that were pastured on that mountain were offered in sacrifice to the fire of the altar in Jerusalem. wherefore Hermon interprets the exalted light, as the gloss says. sup pres. wherefore the light in the altar was increased when the fire of sacrifice was nourished by such food.
About Hebron
Hebron is a mountain in Judea in which is situated a very famous city called Hebron from the name of the same mountain, as Rashi says, whose valley is called the valley of Mambre, which from ancient times was possessed by the ancients Aner and Escol, as is evident Gen. This mountain is a solemn place of rest for the holy patriarchs, whose bodies rest there as if from the beginning of the world, as it says there. gun. There Adam maxi). etc. Likewise, the most powerful possessed that mountain by hereditary right: as is evident in Joshua. xvi. where it says: He removed from it Caleb, the sons of Emath, Sisai and Achmaan and Tholomay etc. In this mountain, as in a safer place, David instituted the beginning of his reign and commanded him to ascend there after the death of Saul, having been anointed twice, where, reigning for a space of seven years, he was finally assumed to the height of the whole kingdom of Jerusalem. This mountain was formerly called Canatharbe by the ancients. i. the city of four, because the bodies of four most famous men rest there, as Jerome says, namely Adam & Abraham Isaac & Jacob
About Mount Hephron
Ephron is a small mountain in Tni, located to the north, 20 miles from Helya Miliana, where there is a very large town called Effnca.
As Jerome says.
About Wor.
Or is a mountain on the extreme borders of the land of Edom, on which Aaron died at the command of the Lord in the fortieth year after he left Egypt, when he was 133 years old, as Numbers 28 says. It was the thirtieth station in which the children of Israel remained after they left Egypt, as it is said in the third book, 120.

Pevii
When they moved camp from Kadesh, they came to Mount Hor, which is on the extreme borders of the land. On this mountain, Eleazar, the son of Aaron, received the chief priesthood.
About Lebanon
Lebanon is the highest mountain of Phoenicia, which the prophets remembered. It is called Lebanon from the incense that is collected there, whose part facing the east is called Libany, as Ys says. Libany is also called candidano, that is, white, because it is perpetually whitened by snow, always in winter and summer; for at no time does it melt so completely that in some part it does not have snow. Lebanon is the beginning and origin of rivers and fountains; for from its root, as Jerome says, two fountains spring, Sez Ior and Dan, which, joined together, form the Jordan. Therefore, Lebanon is a mountain of fragrance and supreme aromaticity. For fragrant herbs grow there, and fragrant trees thrive there; therefore, gums selected from Lebanon are called by doctors, as Jerome says. Also, it is a mountain of sufficiency and fertility. For because of the abundance of dew and frequent rains, it abounds in herbs, excellent pastures, udders, and choice and early fruits; and therefore, on Mount Hibam, the animals that were offered in the temple were nourished, and the pastures themselves were fostered. Also, the mountain was of eminence and maximum sublimity; for as Rabany sup-reg. says, Lebanon exceeded all other mountains of that region in altitude. And therefore, to those sailing to Tyre through very remote seas, the ships offered themselves to the eyes of the sailors, and its altitude showed which ports the sailors should seek: as Idez says there. Also, the mountain was of unfailing influence and perpetual humidity. For although it endured drought, it abounded not only on its surface but also internally with a vein of water, as is evident in the streams of water.

flowing, which, according to Solomon's sentence in the Songs, continually emanate with impetus from Lebanon, as it is said in the Song, 4:15, "a well of living water," etc. Also, the mountain of confidence and security. For those resting in Lebanon are safe from venomous serpents, which its aromaticity and bitterness drive away, both the herbs and the trees continually growing there. Also, the cedars growing there drive away all poisonous things with their odor, and they do not allow poisonous reptiles to live there, as Jerome says. Also, it is a mountain of beautiful humidity and pleasantness. For the wonderful growth of cedars and green trees, the continuous moisture of grasses and herbs, the melodious songs of wild birds, the sweetness of odors, and the multiplicity of fountains make Lebanon pleasant and delightful. Also, the mountain is of medicine and health; for aromatic species grow there that are remedies and medicines against very rabid diseases; there are cypresses and firs, whose liquors and resins are against the inconveniences of various infirmities, especially medicine. Also, the mountain of joy and delight. For on the hills of Lebanon grows an abundance of excellent wine, especially conducive to joy and great hilarity. Also, the mountain of honor and dignity. For among all the mountains of Arabia, Phoenicia, and Syria, Mount Lebanon obtains the primacy in sublimity, in fertility, in pleasantness, and in the healthiness of the air, as Jerome, Josephus, and Jo say.
About Mount Mona.
Ona is a mountain in Jerusalem on which Solomon's temple was built, as it says in 2 Chronicles 3:1. For David bought this mountain from Ornan the Jebusite for 600 shekels of the purest gold, so that he might build an altar to the Lord when the people were struck down because of the census that David had taken, as in 1 Chronicles 21. On this mountain, he sacrificed to the Lord and prayed, and the Lord heard him from heaven in fire upon the altar of burnt offering. On this mountain, Abraham offered a burnt offering for Isaac, whom the Lord commanded to be sacrificed there, Genesis 22, where the gloss says on that word: "Go into the land of vision and offer your son upon one of the mountains," etc. The Hebrews say that this mountain is the one on which the temple was later built, the mountain of Orna the Jebusite, Mount Mona, which is therefore interpreted as illuminating and shining, because there is dabir, that is, the oracle of God and the law and spirit that inspires the prophets and teaches men the truth: thus far Jerome in the same place. It is believed that Jacob slept there and saw the vision of angels ascending through a ladder, as is evident in Genesis 28, where the gloss says on that word: "This is none other but the house of God," etc. This is said because he foresaw the temple and the worship of God to be there in the future. But this place was a hill on the side of Mount Zion, where the tower of David was later built. Hence it is clear from the foregoing that Mount Monia was a mountain of vision and revelation, a mountain of sacrifice and prayer, a mountain of prophecy and instruction, a mountain of light or illumination, a mountain of angelic frequentation, a mountain of divine apparition, a mountain of mercy and propitiation.
About Mount Gosor
Gosor is a mountain or hill of the Moabites, and is part of Mount Phasga, upon which Balac led Balaam to curse Israel, Numbers 23. Thus says Jerome.
About Gilead.
Maad, as Jerome says, is the mountain to which Jacob came seven days from Canaan when he was fleeing from Laban. But as the same says, it is the back of Phoenicia and Arabia, joined to the hills of Lebanon, and extends beyond the Jordan into the land that was once Seon, king of the Amorites, but later fell to the lot of Reuben and Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh, on which mountain a city was built and called by the name of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh. This mountain, among others, is noble, because it is a mountain of pasture and refreshment; for it is very fertile in fruits and in pastures and in springs. Also, the mountain is of medicine and healing, for in Gilead resin is found with which wounds are cured and various diseases are healed, as Jerome says, "Is there no resin in Gilead?" etc. Also, the mountain is of federation and reconciliation, because on Mount Gilead Jacob made a covenant with Laban and was totally reconciled to him, as is evident in Genesis 31. Also, the mountain is of testimony, as is evident there. For it is said that its name was called Gilead, i.e., "heap of witness." Also, the mountain is of buying and selling. For the merchants often frequented the mountains of Gilead to buy aromatic spices, as Genesis 37 says: "And they saw merchants coming from Gilead, carrying aromatics into Egypt."
About Mount Garizim
Anzim, as Jerome says, is a mountain near Shechem, next to which is Mount Ebal, facing opposite. On these two mountains, blessings and curses were proclaimed to the people entering the land of promise, so that by blessings the lovers of the law would be provoked to good, but by curses the transgressors of the Decalogue would be terrified. On Garizim, however, six of the more noble tribes, with the priests, proclaimed the blessings. And therefore, custom willed that that mountain be held in veneration by posterity and frequented for the sake of sacrifice and prayer. Hence, there was contention between the Jews and the Samaritans about the place of worship, the Samaritans asserting that Mount Garizim was more convenient for praying than the temple in Jerusalem, the Jews asserting the contrary, as in Micah 4:2, as in the text as in the gloss.

About Mount Gelboe
Elboe are mountains, as Iero says. of alien races. vij. Uliano Asitopoli in which there is

a large cave that is called Gelles. In these mountains Saul perished with Jonathan his son, and Corinth before the Philistines Israel, as it appears in the first book of Kings. Against whom David was indignant because of the ruin of his people, he cursed them and by cursing he changed them into dryness and barrenness, as the gloss says. on. y. Kings ca.i. The mountains, before the curse, were Miquit Geslve Yberes, which they say are now subject to the curse and they testify that it never rains there. About Golgotha
Olgata, as Iero says, is Mount
Calvary in which our savior
was crucified for the salvation of men, and it is still shown in Helya
to the northern side of Mount
Zion: but the place is called Calvary because there the heads of men condemned to be beheaded were cut off.
(0e 9828.
larent
Nas is a hill on Mount Ephraim
in the possession of Joshua, son of Nun
where Joshua died and was
buried on the northern part of the same
mountain, as it appears in the book of Joshua: ca last
whose tomb is shown on the aforementioned mountain to this day, as
Ierommus says
Ebo is a mountain in the land of Moab
on the top of Phasga opposite Jericho
from this mountain Moses saw the land of promise and there he died
after he had contemplated the land
as Iero says. & it appears in the histories of Numbers xxvij
About Olivet
Mount Olivet is a mountain near Judea
Jerusalem so called because
there is an abundance of olives on
that mountain. And Jon-
ab augy: is called the mountain of ointments &
unctions: mountain of light, mountain of fatness
and refreshment & mountain of
medicines & cures. And this is said
because of the abundance of olives growing there
dantly: therefore the fruit is unctuous
luminous & delicious: because as it says
ys. the olive tree from the moisture it loves

arises into food of light, into medicine
for wounds & into refreshment for the hungry.
At the root of this Mount of Olives
or foot flows a stream which is called the torrent
Cedion: between this mountain & the valley
was a garden which the Lord of prayer &
quiet often frequented & entered.
where he was also captured before
death who was called Gethsemane. as
it is said in John. xix. for there, namely at the foot
of the mountain, there was once a small village called
Gethsemane with gardens that at that time
were still there, as Augy says. & that place
of gardens the Lord frequented out of habit.
But the mountain was
on the eastern part of the temple & therefore in the morning
it was illuminated by the rising sun: but in the evening
indeed and at night it was illuminated by the splendor
from the lights of the temple shining. And
therefore the mountain was called the mountain of light
both because it received light from heaven & from the temple
and also because it bestowed the material of light
oil from its abundance to others, as Augy says. On this mountain there was
a certain village named Bethphage
which belonged to the priests: on the side of this mountain
there was a city called Bethany which
was the city of Martha, Lazarus & Mary as
the gloss says, Matthew, xxi: from this mountain
the Lord ascended into heaven & upon the same
mountain he will appear for judgment as it appears
in Acts. i. both in the gloss and in the text. On this mountain
Solomon built high shrines.
as it appears. ij. Kings.x. And therefore it is called
the mountain of olives & propitiation: the mountain of
offenses. inj. Kings. xxiiij: namely because
Solomon offended his God with those idols.
Ouno.
Olympus is a mountain in Macedonia
very high: so that under
it the clouds are said to be, as
Virgil says, Olympus exceeded the clouds
Olympus is said to be as if olo
lampus that is as if heaven: This mountain
divides Macedonia from Thrace. It is of such
sublimity is Mount Olympus that it exceeds all
others in the absence of winds, clouds & other passions

Prmii

Whence philosophers ascending there
would observe the sites & courses of the stars.
It was not possible to live there unless they carried with them
sponges with water. & thus through the attraction of water
they would make the air thicker
or denser: as the master says
Noreb
in history.
Horeb is a mountain in the region of Ma-
dian near Arabia in the desert
which joins the desert of Sar-
racenore. which is called Pharan. & it is
the same Mount Horeb & Sinai as Iero says. In
this mountain Moses saw many visions
as it appears in Exodus. jij. there he saw the bush
burning & not being consumed: there he heard
God speaking to him & commanding many things
as he will say later about Mount Sinai
About Peruasus
Peruasus is a mountain in Thessaly
near Boeotia: which mountain has
two peaks as if raised into the sky
in which Apollo & Liber Bacchus were once worshiped: perhaps
because of the pleasantness of the place & the wine
and the great abundance of vineyards
about Mount Phasga.
Phasga is a very large mountain con-
taining many particular
mountains: for in this mountain
are Abarim & Nebo which are hills
upon which Moses ascended to see
the borders of the promised land before he
died & in the valley of the same mountain in the cam-
pestribus of Moab he would be buried. as
it appears in Numbers. xxvij. & Deuteronomy. last. This mountain
was on the border of Moab and Ammon
dividing their land from the land of the Amorites which they later possessed.
Ruben & Gad & half the tribe of Ma-
nasse as it appears in Deuteronomy. inj. The roots indeed
of this mountain touch the Red Sea which
is the saltiest sea as it is said in Deuteronomy
in both the text and the gloss. Whence these
mountains divided the land which the Mo-
abites & Ammonites inhabited from the land
which the Israelites had received into possession.
Whence up to the top of the same mountain

Moses reached & from that place all
the land of promise was contemplated
there because he died and in the valley of it
the same mountain where there were fields of Mo-
ab was buried & is still hidden today.
Upon this Mount Phasga ascended
Balaam the angel with Balac king of the Moabi-
tes to curse the people of Israel
whose curse the Lord con-
verted into a blessing: as it is said in Nu-
bers. xxxiij. from which it is clear that that mountain
was a mountain of division. which divided the borders of evils
from the good things of God which
of blessing thence God through Balaam the prophet
conferred blessings on the people of Israel
Likewise the mountain was a watchtower of communion
and contemplation. Whence Moses
beheld the borders of the promised land: about this mountain as Iero says in h.
about the names of places: Abarim which is
a mountain in which Moses died in
the land of Moab opposite Jericho on the summit
of Mount Phasga the whole region in cir-
cuit is called Phasga and is shown to
those ascending from Lydia, from Mesela and it is the same
that and Nebo About the rocks
Rocks are very solid mountains
and strong against the alti-
tude of other mountains
towering, continually receiving the force of storms and the flow of rains, which
is superficially diluted and the inner
parts of the mountain more compact are
transformed into rock, innumerable
waters are produced: however much
the rocks may have much solidity externally
and roughness. inside however they have
some sponginess & concavity.
whence the humors attracted & col-
lected there often gush out & burst forth through the heads of the fountains.
The waters also enter the caverns
of the rocks and are sometimes the cause of earthquakes
tus from whose violence the rocks sometimes
collapse and burst forth only birds such as
eagles and vultures find the inaccessible summits of the rocks. the shores of the sea also stand against the rocks and to the force of the waves

prix
of the waves & storms are broken places suitable for monuments are found in the rocks the hiding places of birds & animals are built in the rocks clouds & clouds envelop the tops of the mountains.
The summits of the rocks are bathed in the rays of the sun at sunrise. Rocks
are also said to be difficult to break: for without the violence of iron
no rocks are pierced & from the depths
even of the rocks veins of precious stones
and various species of metals are often
extracted the projecting parts however
in the rocks are called cliffs
from scopin which is to extend or watch
whence places are watched from a very remote distance
About Sephara.
Sephara is a mountain of the east in
) Judea as Iero says. near which
dwelt the sons of Jethan. the
sons of Heber whom Josephus says came
thence to Sephora to which place the fleets
of Solomon with certain trades
were accustomed to come within three years
for this is Tarshish the land & port of the sea
whence the servants of Solomon gold & silver
silver, apes & peacocks & elephant teeth
they brought as it appears. iij Kings.x.
About Segor
Segor is a small mountain which
is also called Balo near Sodom
as Iero says: in which a city was built
which was freed at the prayers of Lot
where the vine of balsam grows in the sign
of pristine fertility & palm fruits.
However, the Dead Sea is now dead & a garrison of the Romans was later placed in it. about this it is said in Isaiah. xv: where the gloss says that it was called Vitulia because of the lasciviousness that constrains because twice shaken the third time the earthquake collapsed which would have remained strong if after liberation it had not sinned
About Mount Sinai.
Sinai is a mountain of which part is
Horeb and is Arabia in the pro-
vince of Midian. about this mountain
Josephus says in book. ij. of Antiquities. Sy

nai is a high mountain & bearing herbs suitable for the pastures of the flock. And
this place was thought to be the place where God dwelt And therefore
at first no one grazed sheep there and the shepherds did not presume to walk there approaching this mountain
Moses saw a prodigy namely a fire
burning the bush & not consuming it & its verdure
tem & flower not at all grazing
& its fruitful branches not devastating with any fire
though the flame was very swift & vehement whence from that
fire God spoke to Moses: Likewise
the same book. iij. Moses ascended into Sinai which
mountain is most excellent in those regions
and because of the height of its magnitude
tudiis and the abundance of cliffs
not only is it inaccessible to men
but it can also be seen with difficulty: &
because there was talk of God dwelling around it
it was terrible & admirable to all:
around the roots of this mountain the He-
brews pitched their tents & there
they deserved to see God in fire & in a cloud & to hear him
speaking personally: therefore Mount Sinai is said to be the mountain of di-
vine habitation, angelic frequentation
tion. mountain of light & inflammation
tion: mountain of cloud & darkness: mountain of dew
vie & dew: mountain of pasture & refection
tion. mountain of wisdom & erudition: because
from that mountain the Lord instructed Moses & the po-
pulum and conferred the law on him: mountain of mercy and promise
because thence he promised good things unheard of to the people
tebat: mountain of justice & commination.
because it inspired fear in those looking at it
Whence the mountain was of lightning & flashing
uoms. mountain of trumpet & clangor: mountain
of friendship & confederation. which by means
te law bound the people there to himself in an eternal
no covenant: mountain of cleanliness &
purity: mountain of joy & gladness.
because no one could approach that mountain
who were not clean in mind & body
they also who were clean
before the Lord they ate with joy
& they drank: mountain of clemency & piety si

ue propitiation: mountain of sacrifice & ora-
tion: for there they sacrificed to the Lord and
by the prayers of Moses & the supplications they heard God
placated & propitious to himself
About Mount Zion.
Zion was a mountain in Jerusalem su
upon whose summit was a fortress or
towers placed there by David for the sake
of the city's decorum & defense. On one side
of Mount Zion was the temple as
if in the middle between the fortress & the inner city
uita tem so that the fortress would defend
the temple & the temple with the fortress would protect
the city. And therefore scripture often
calls Jerusalem the daughter of Zion who as a daughter
is protected by her mother & is subject to that mother
tn: so the lower city is subject to the temple
dita and to the fortress. Of such great dignity
tis & nobility among the other mountains
was Mount Zion that not only the city of Je-
rusalem nor even Judea itself but
even the universal church gathered together from both Jews
than from the Gentiles are often in
prophecy called Mount Zion
as there. It is founded in the exultation of the whole
universe of the earth Mount Zion the sides of the north
ci. re magm. For Mount Zion was a mountain
of great altitude and sublimity
of great fortitude and firmness. of great
fullness and abundance: of great pul-
chritude and pleasantness: of greatest confi-
dence and security: of greatest opulence and
enrichment of greatest joy &
exultation: of perfect justice & sancti-
fication mountain of doctrine & erudition
as it is written Isaiah. ij. from Zion shall go forth
the law: mountain of prophecy & revelation
about Selmon
Selmon is a mountain in the tribe of Ephraim
near the border of the tribe of Manasseh
into which Abimelech ascended
when he fought against the Shechemites as
Iero says. & it is read in Judges. ix mountain pre-
multitude of trees. dense & shady
wherefore also Selmon is interpreted as shadow. It is also a mountain irrigated by

waters & rich in numerous springs, fat & pa-
stuosus as it is said in Proverbs. mx they shall be whitened in Selmon the mountain of God the fat mountain
About Sophim.
Sophim is a mountain in the tribe of Eph-
raim in the place of Armachen whence
Samuel was born as Iero says
It was however a place of great fertility
lis & grassy: irrigated by waters.
planted with trees & delicious Saron about
which it is said in Isaiah. xxv. It is a mountain
between Mount Tabor & the pool of Tiberias
Whence also that whole region of Saron is called to this day as Iero says: all the region also
from Cesana Palestine to the town
of Joppe is called Saron: near these mountains
the fields are very fertile as the gloss says
on Isaiah. xxviij: both in fruits and fruits
very apu-
& Mount Seon
Seon mountain about which it is said in Deuteronomy
iij it is said to be part of Mount Gala-
ad which extends through the desert
as far as Trafordanen where Seon dwelt
king of the Amorites & fell to the lot of Ru-
ben & Gad & half the tribe of Manasseh
as Iero says. on Jeremiah. xlvi. there ascending
Galaad rc to seek above Mount
Ba
about Mount Se Meron
Emeron is a mountain about which it is said
ij. Paralip: xij. book. mountain
in which is now Sebaste where the re-
liques of John the Baptist rest as
Iero says. in the same mountain indeed pray
Samaria was built from which also the whole re-
gio was later called Samaria. This city
by reason of the mountain was very strong & ad-
difficult to conquer Whence also the re-
ges of the Assyrians with small expenses & war
rum with very large apparatus besieged it for three
years otmue: & scarcely through anguish
against it could they prevail in their anger
they could ymmo as Iero says. & John. nun-
they would never have conquered it if its inhabitants
tores provoking the God of Israel to wrath
had placed full trust in the Lord
mio & had not at all relinquished his law
sent. The properties of this mountain which re

D

below about the mountains of Israel & there plemy
we find.
About Mount Seir.
Seir is a mountain about which there is often
mention in scripture is
the same that and Mount Edom about which
mountain enough has been said above which
seek about Mount Edom or Esau tiinommy
for he was Esau
about Mount Tabor
Tabor is a mountain in the middle of the cam-
po as Iero says. on Jeremiah. ca.
xxvi. & it is a mountain of admirable roundness
sublime distant from Diocesarea. x. miles
to the eastern side & was in the con-
fimo of Zebulun Issachar & Naphtali. This
mountain among all the mountains of the land of promise
is most famous by reason
of its situation. fertility. pleasantness foru-
tudmis & firmness: for the glebe of that
mountain is fertile with vines, olives & other
fruitful trees. the air there is
healthy. dew frequent & sweet: rain
both temperate and late
cris. there the trees grow so tall that they do not depo-
nunt winter or summer comamyel uro
rem sum. there the souls of many kinds ca-
norus sounds & sonorous sweetness by
whose voice the hearing is affected by the aspect of the feathers
the sight is provoked: in the sweetness of the songs
the taste delights. & therefore there are many
there fowlers placing nets & snares for the little birds frequenting that place as Iero says. on that place
Hosea iij. as a net in Pansun upon Mount
Tabor: rc. Above all however the mountain
renders this commendable the presence
of the Savior on this mountain he taught on this
mountain he spent the night in prayer.
on this mountain he fed the people somewhat
& he refreshed them with both spiritual and bodily food
lo: on the summit of this mountain also
he wanted to transfigure himself before his disciples & to reveal to his disciples the future glory of his body:
About the mountains of Israel

The mountains of Israel are called the mountains
generally of the whole land of pro-
mission whether they were beyond the Jordan
danem or on this side: they are often taken for the land
of the ten tribes which was mountainous pre-
especially in the tribe of Dan & Ephraim: for & x
tribes claimed the name Israel for themselves
under Jeroboam the son who was of Ephraim and
reigned first in Samaria over the ten
tribes. as Iero says: & it appears in history
book-iij. Kings: xij- these mountains were very
pastoral, abundant, fruitful & frugife-
n olives & other fruitful trees
they were planted they were also medicinal herbs
& full of aromatic species as it says
yb: book. xiij: c. iij: Samaria the region is Pa-
lestine from the town once the name ac-
cepit which was once a royal city
in Israel which is now called Sebastia by Augustus
Hec regio is near Judea
& similar to it in nature: for it varies opu-
diies is fertile in fruits. illuminated by waters
optia balsams: whence according to the grace
of the elements the Jews judged this land flowing with milk & honey slamm its mountains because of the abundance of pastures
ciaz innumerable sheep & cattle
flocks & herds were grazed. Bees
also innumerable making honey
nourished by the sweetness of herbs & flowers
dulciflua. Fruits & fruits
ges because of the temperate air & the abundance of dew
ciaz very quickly to maturity
in those mountains they were led. Gold
or silver & other kinds of metals
were dug in those mountains Deuteronomy
viij. Fountains & streams from the veins of the mountains
tium proceeded upwards: loca-
very suitable were built in those mountains
almost wild as tigers & lions
ones in those wooded mountains they lived
About the Hyperborean mountains.
Hyperborean mountains are said to be mountains
of Scythia beyond which the north winds blow as Isidore says. book. xiij.
They are however according to Isidore: the same ca. iij. of the earth
Scythia more wealthy uninhabitable
however more. For while in most lo
cis gold & gems flow from the mountains of Scythia because of the immensity of the griffins there is rare
access for men In those mountains
emeralds are the best & crystals pu-
rissimi about the mountains of Scythia they are brought
However, there are rough forests there & very large
que & marshes namely with leopards.
tigers & panthers are filled. There
also are dogs of such magnitude
& of such immense sense: that they perish the bull
mant & they press & kill the lions &
especially in Albania & Hyrcania which Scy-
thie are regions: which are mountainous
are & very wooded
Zyph
Ziph is a squalid & shady mountain

in which David hid when
he fled from the face of Saul & is near Car-
melisn where Nabal the Carmelite once
dwelt who was of the lineage of Caleb as
Iero says. It is however a mountain very ne-
morosus: full of oaks & unfruitful trees
ofis planted & woody full of marshes & ybici-
bus puius: full of caves & dens
& very cavernous. & therefore it is suitable for fugitives & those wishing to hide &
dangerous for unknown passersby
It follows about the islands
daradia.
Radia or Ara
dyn is an island
which is all a ci-
vitas located in the sea
ri Mediterranean
not far from Ty-
ro as the gloss says
on that place
Ezekiel. xxviij.
The sons of Ara are in your army rc. these are indeed
sailors & skilled in naval battles
About Arcadia
Arcadia is a province located in ter
jomun sea & Aegean as
Isidore says which Arcas Jove's
son defeated by the moles from his nose-
archadian named. for even Sici-
omo from a certain king Liciomai later
was called as it says yb. book. xv.
About Abidos.
Abidos is an island in Europe supe
lespontum placed narrow er
separated by a dangerous sea & from
Abidos Greek said whence the strait of Helle-
sponte sea. in which Xerxes a bridge
made of ships: & crossed into Greece
Ritama oc ceam island inter-
fuso sea divided by the whole world. from
the vocabulary of his people cognomi-
named. This opposite part of Gaul
to the prospect of Spain is located. cir-
its circuit is forty occiges: lxxv.
miles. many & large rivers mea
hot springs: large & ua- of metals
ria copia: gagates stone there plunmy
& margante
About Ense & Argire
Arise & Argire islands in the Indian
ocean no site. so fertile co-
pia me tallort: that most of them
golden surface & silver to have
they have betrayed whence & the vocabula sor-
tite sun

About the island of Cos
The island of Cos, adjacent to the province of Attica, is where Hippocrates the physician was born; Varro mentions it in the art of wool-making. First, the mortar was smeared with Melian mortar from Cyprus. 
About Cyprus 
Cyprus is an island about the city of Cyprus, which is mine, as Isidore says in book 13. It is also Paphlos, which was once consecrated to Venus; it was once very famous, especially for its metals, and it is said that bronze was first found there and its use, as the same author says. The land is viniferous and the wines of that place are very strong. Nowadays it has many noble cities, among which the capital and metropolis is called Nicosia; the land is surrounded by the sea on all sides, but the interior is full of forests, fields, meadows, vineyards, and various fruits, irrigated by springs and rivers, and rich in many riches, pleasures, and delights. This island is often called Cethim in scripture, as it says in Isaiah 23:1. And it is said to be named after a son of Javan, grandson of Japheth, as Isidore says. Orosius says about this island in book 1: The island of Cyprus is bordered by the Syrian Sea, by the Pamphylian Sea to the west, by the Cilician and Aulonian Sea to the north, and is surrounded by the sea of Phoenicia to the south, which in length holds a space of 275 miles, and in width 125 miles.
About Crete
Crete is an island of Greece, named after a certain native king called Cretas, stretched out in a very long tract between east and west, washed by the Aegean waves to the north and by the Egyptian waves to the south. It was once adorned with a hundred noble cities, hence it was called Centapolis. But first it was an island that was famous for oars and arms and arrows. It first gave laws, first taught equestrian troops, first discovered the study of music and handed it down to the docile world, and increased it by practice. It has abundant sheep and goats, but very few deer and roe deer; wolves and foxes, and the harmful kinds of greedy wild animals never breed there; no snake is there, no owl, and if one is brought from elsewhere, it dies immediately. The land is friendly to vines, planted with trees, full of medicinal herbs such as dittany and alder and the like; it also generates precious gems, for it produces a stone that is called iote dactylus, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 15. And although the island is remarkably free from major poisons, it still generates poisonous spiders, i.e. certain spiders, up to this day, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 65. Pliny narrates the same in all respects in book 4, chapter 12. Orosius says about the same island: Crete is bordered by the Carpathian Sea to the east, by the Cretan Sea to the west and north, and by the Libyan Sea to the south, which they call Adnaticum. And it has 188 miles in length and 50 miles in width. Look for the arrangement of Daedalus' house in Crete in Isidore book 16, chapter 3, and about the cities.
About the Cyclades
The Cyclades Islands, as Isidore says in book 14, chapter 15, were once part of Greece; they are thought to be called Cyclades because, although they are stretched out over longer spaces, they are located around Delos. The Greeks call the orbit a cycle. Some say that they are so called because of the cliffs that surround them. These islands are in the Hellespont, between the Aegean Sea and Malea. It is surrounded by the Indian Sea and there are 54 of them, extending from north to south. They have 50 miles from north to south and 50 miles from east to west, but others say 60. The first of these islands, as Orosius says, is Rhodes to the east, Scenodos to the north, Capados to the south, Eiteras to the west. They are bordered by the shores of Asia to the east, by the Icarian Sea to the west, and by the Carpha Sea to the north.
About Corsica
Corsica is an island with many angular provinces. It has the Tyrrhenian Sea and the port of the city of Rome to the east, Sardinia to the south, the Balearic Islands to the west, and the Ligurian Sea to the north, and it is 161 miles long and 26 miles wide.
About Corsica
The Ligurian inhabitants gave the island of Corsica its beginning, calling it by the name of two. For a certain Ligurian woman named Corsa, when she saw a bull from the herd that she was guarding near the shore was accustomed to swim across and return through intervals with a strong body, desiring to know the unknown pastures for herself, she followed the bull, departing from the others, by boat as far as the island. The Ligurians, learning about the fertility of the island upon her return, went there in droves and called it by the name of the woman, the author of the two. This island is called Cyrnus in Greek, inhabited by Cyrnus, the son of Hercules. Virgil says about it: "Cirnean yews"; it is divided from Saxoma by 20 miles, by the strait emitted by the Ligurian horse of the gulf towards the prospect of Italy. It is angular with small promontories, producing very fertile pastures and stones that the Greeks call tatociren. Eboly is called an island of Spain, which is far from Zomonon, almost 70 stadia away. The snakes flee from its land. Opposite to this is Colubraria, which is full of snakes.
About Carpathos
Carpathos is one of the Cyclades, located to the south, opposite Egypt, from which the Carpathian Sea is named, called because of the quick maturity of the fruits. For it is between Egypt and Rhodes. From this island are said to come the large and spacious Carpathian ships.
About Cythera
Cythera is one of the Cyclades islands, located on the western side, whose name was Porphyris before. It is called Cythera because Venus was born there.
About Delos
Delos is an island of Greece, located in the middle of the Cyclades. And it is called Delos because after the flood, which had darkened the world for many months in the time of Ogyges, it was illuminated by the rays of the sun before all other lands, and obtained its name from that, because it was first made manifest to human eyes. The Greeks call Delos "manifest". It is also Ortigia because quails were first seen there, which the Greeks call ortigias. In this island Latona gave birth to Apollo and Diana. Delos is both a city and an island. Rhodes is the first of the Cyclades from the east, where the Capitol of Rhodes is said to have been found while the city was being founded there; from which both the city and the island of Rhodes are named. In this city was a bronze colossus of the sun, 70 cubits in height. There were also others, 100 in number, smaller colossi on the same island.
About Dalmatia
Dalmatia is a province of Greece, but it belongs to ancient Tyre, named after the city of Delminium in the same province. This province has Macedonia to the east, Moesia to the north, Histria to the west, and is bounded by the Adriatic Gulf to the south, as Isidore says in book 14, chapter 12. And Orosius says the same. The people of that land are strong and robust, devoted to plunder and piracy. Indeed, they derive most of their livelihood from piracy.
About Aeolia
Aeolia is an island of Sicily, named after Aeolus, the son of Hippotes, whom the poets feigned to be the god of the winds, because he was the ruler of those islands and because he predicted future winds from their clouds and smoky vapors; he was seen by the ignorant to have restrained the winds in his power, as Isidore says in book 14. It is said that there are nine islands called Aeolian, named after the same Aeolus; they are also called Vulcanian because fire burns in them as in Mount Etna, as the same author says. And each island is designated by its own name, of which the first is called Lippata, the second Geta, so called from the very high hills, the third Strogile, the fourth Dedy, and so on for the others.
About Hesperides
The Hesperides are called islands, from the city of Espende, which was at the end of Mauritania. For they are located beyond the Gorgons, under the Atlas Mountains, in the depths of the sea, in whose shores they fabulously imagine a dragon guarding the golden apples. For it is said that there is a marine estuary there, with winding sides, tortuous, so that it seems to emit serpentine vapors from afar.
About the Fortunate Islands
The Fortunate Islands are located in the ocean, opposite the left side of Mauritania, very close to the west, and separated from each other by an intervening sea, as Isidore says in book 14, chapter 6. They are called the Fortunate Islands because of all their goodness and especially the abundance of harvests and fruits, which the error of the Gentiles and the songs of the poets thought to be paradise because of the fertility of the soil, as Isidore says in book 14, chapter 13. Pliny says the same in book 5, chapter 33. And he says that trees grow there up to a height of 140 feet; there is an abundance of fruits and a multitude of birds; there is an abundance of honey and milk, and especially on the island of Caprana, so named from the multitude of goats and ducks. There is a wonderful strength of dogs there, and especially on the island of Canana, which is so named from the multitude of dogs of immense strength and size.
About Gades
Gades is an island located at the end of Spain, which divides Africa from Europe, where Hercules placed wonderful and remarkable columns, and from there the heat of the Tyrrhenian Sea enters its springs. It is separated by about 120 paces, which the Tyrians, coming from the Red Sea, occupied and called Gades in their language, that is, "separated," because it is surrounded by the sea on all sides. In it grows a very tall palm tree, whose gum, when mixed with glass, makes a gem, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 13. Moreover, the island enriches many parts of the world, especially the West, with fruits and spices.
About the Gorgons
The Gorgons are islands of the ocean, opposite the promontory that is called Hesperus, which were inhabited by the Gorgons, winged women, that is, of swift height, with a hairy, rough body, and the islands were named after them, as Isidore says in book 14, chapter 12.
About Guido
Guido is a region on an island opposite Asia, looking towards Syria and Italy, towards Pamphylia and Cilicia, opposite Crete, as is evident on the globe above in Acts 27.
About Hibernia
Hibernia is an island in the ocean in Europe, neighboring the island of Britain, narrower in space but more fertile in location. It extends from Africa to the north, as Isidore says in book 14, whose protruding parts extend into the Iberian and Cantabrian Ocean. Hence also Hibernia is named from the Hibernian Ocean. Moreover, the island is very rich in wheat fields, irrigated by springs and rivers, pleasant with meadows and forests, fertile in metals and gem-bearing; for there is born a hexagonal stone, namely iris, which, when placed in the sun, forms a celestial arc in the air. There is also found a stone that is called gagates. There are found white pearls. As for the healthiness of the climate, Hibernia is a very temperate region; there is little or no excess there in cold or heat. It has wonderful lakes and springs. For there is a lake there in which, if a wooden stake is driven for some length of time, the part that is fixed in the earth is converted into iron, but the part that is in the water into stone, but that which is above the water remains wood. There is another lake in which, if you throw hazel rods, they are converted into ash rods, and conversely, if you throw ash rods, they will be changed into hazel rods. There are places there in which the corpses of the dead never rot, but always remain uncorrupted. There is also in Hibernia a certain small island in which men do not die, but when they are affected by excessive old age, they are carried outside the island to die. In Hibernia there is no snake, no frog, no poisonous spider; indeed, the whole land is so contrary to poisonous things that the earth brought from there and scattered both kills snakes and toads. Also, Hibernian wool and the hides of animals drive away poisonous things, and if snakes or toads are brought to Hibernia by ship, they die immediately. Many other wonders are in that land. Solinus says about Hibernia: "Hibernia," he says, "is an island that approximates Britain in size, rough in the nature of its human inhabitants; there is no snake there, no frog. The people are inhospitable and warlike; after drinking the blood of the slain, they smear their faces with it; they consider right and wrong in the same place. There is no bee there, and if anyone scatters adventitious dust or pebbles among the swarms of beehives, they destroy the honeycombs. But the Hibernian sea towards Britain is wavy and restless, and is scarcely navigable throughout the year except for a few days. It extends for 330,000 paces in length and 100,000 in width." So far Solinus about the wonders of the world. The Hibernian people are singular in habit, and very frugal in diet, but fierce in spirit, fierce in countenance, and rough in disposition, ungenerous and unfriendly to their own people, but liberal and affable and kind to strangers, and especially that people who inhabit the woods and marshes and mountains. This people is content with curds, apples, and fruits for food, and milk for drink, a people devoted to games and hunting more than to labor.
About Icaria
Icaria is one of the Cyclades islands to the west, which gave its name to the Icarian Sea, and lies between Lamos and Emthonum, inhospitable because of its rocky promontories and without any harbors. It is said to be called Icaria after Icarus of Crete, who was submerged there, as Isidore says in book 14.
About Melos
Melos is one of the Cyclades islands, which is the roundest of all the islands, and therefore it is called Melos, that is, "round," as Isidore says in book 14. Moreover, the island is full of good things, as Pliny says, and the fertility of the soil compensates for the shorter amount of space.
About Media
Media is an island in the province of Hibernia, which is said to be located in the middle of the province, so called from a certain king who, dividing the entire island into five equal parts among his five daughters, set aside that part of the island as the heart of the country for his own use. Therefore, that portion of the island of Hibernia, as it were the middle of the other lands in the circuit, is today called Media. Moreover, that country is abundant in fruits, wheat, pastures, and herds, in fish, meats, and other victuals, in butter and cheese and milk, irrigated by rivers, springs, and lakes of multiple effect and virtue, as it is said to have a delightful appearance, a healthy air, and is very strong in forests and marshes in its extremities. And therefore, because of the multitude of people, the strength of castles and towns, it is commonly called Hibernia "pmpi pacez" (?).
About Mytilene
Mytilene is an island in the Adriatic Sea, through which one sails from Syria and Cyprus to Italy, to which access is difficult because of the bithalassum, that is, the shore extended into the sea. For the sea is divided by the interposition of earth and sand, and it becomes as it were double. Hence, ships driven onto the sands are easily broken. This is evident in Acts of the Apostles, chapter 27, both in the text and on the globe. And although the inhabitants of that island are barbarians, they are nevertheless humane towards those in danger and suffering shipwreck there, as is evident there. Few who sailed against Rome reached this island, and there a viper, which had stuck to his hand among the brushwood, fastened itself. The beast was shaken off and burned in the fire. In that same island, Paul performed many miracles, as it is said in Acts 28.
About Orcades
Orcades is an island in the ocean near the British Sea in Europe, from which also the other many islands bordering and neighboring it are called the Orcades Islands, and they are 33 in number, of which 20 are deserted, but 13 are inhabited, as Isidore says in book 14.
About Paros
Paros is an island named after Paranto, the son of Phlius, who named the town and island of Paros after his own name, as Isidore says in book 14. It produces very white marble, which they call Parian; it also produces sard, a stone more excellent than marbles and most valuable among gems, as Isidore says.
About Rhodes
Rhodes is the first of the Cyclades islands from the east, where the Capitol of Rhodes is said to have been found while the city was being founded there. In this city was a bronze colossus of the sun, 70 cubits in height. There were also other smaller colossi on the same island, as Isidore says in book 14. Moreover, Rhodes is the same island as Cyprus, as Isidore says in the chapter on the names of cities.
About Sardinia
Sardinia is an island in the Mediterranean Sea near Sicily, named after a certain Sardo, procreated by Hercules, who, having set out from Libya with a great multitude, occupied Sardinia and gave the island its name from his own name. In Africa, the sea projects almost in the shape of a human footprint, wider in the east than in the west, with its sides turning to the south and to the north. And therefore it was previously called Ichnusa by Greek sailors. Moreover, it is evident that it measures 240 miles in length and 40 miles in width. Neither snakes nor wolves breed there, but only the solifuga, a small animal, very harmful to humans. Poison is also not found there, but a herb that is called apium risus, which attracts laughter to humans and kills them as if laughing. It has hot springs that provide health to the infirm, but blindness if they touch their eyes with a sacrament given, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 13.
About Samos
Samos is an island in the Aegean Sea, where Juno was born, from which the Sibyl of Samos came, and Pythagoras of Samos, by whom the name of philosophy is thought to have been first discovered, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 13. In this island, they say that earthenware vessels were first discovered, whence they are also called Samian vessels. From which it is evident that the soil of that island is tenacious and glutinous, and therefore it is said to be more suitable for such vessels, as Isidore says.
About Thanet
Thanet is a small island in the ocean, separated from Britain by a small stretch of strait. Moreover, it is located on the eastern side of Kent, not small in size, but of considerable estimation, containing 600 families, which is more fertile than the mainland. The river Stour, which is about three stadia in width, is passable in two places. Each end extends around the sea. Blessed Augustine landed on this island to preach the Catholic faith to the English believing in Christ, having wheat fields and fertile soil. It is called Thanet from the death of snakes, which, when the earth was carried from there to the lands of the Gentiles, immediately perished, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 13.
About Taprobane
Taprobane is an island lying in the Indian Sea to the south, from which the Indian Ocean originates, extending 870,050 paces in length and 75,000 stadia in width. It is divided by rivers, completely filled with pearls and gems, and is filled with beasts and elephants. Humans occupy part of it. In this island, they say that there are two summers and two winters in a year, and the place blooms twice with flowers, a very useful island in India, green at all times, and its leaves are always green and never fall, as Isidore says in book 16, chapter 13.
About Tenedos
Tenedos is an island of Greece, one of the Cyclades, located to the north, in which the city of Tenedos was founded, from which also the island is named. Moreover, Thenes was a certain infamous inventor who had known his stepmother, who, fleeing, obtained the island vacant of inhabitants, which he named after his own name, and founded a city there.
About Thule
Thule is the last island of the ocean, located beyond Britain towards the northern and southern regions, having its name from the sun, because there the summer solstice makes the sun and no one is beyond it, and therefore its sea is slow to freeze. Frisius says in book 14, chapter 12, and Pliny says that it is a six-day voyage. The Greeks gave it its name from the winter, we from the summer, they from the time when it freezes, we from the time when it dries up. Moreover, the place of the river is uninhabitable because it is redeemed by groves and foliage, and from that pleasantness the river is called. The course is properly the course or water of rivers, or of any things. Rivers are said to be derived to irrigate, that is, to lead waters into the fields. For to irrigate is to lead in. A whirlpool is properly a deep place in a river. A well is a place dug out from which water is drawn for drinking, named from drinking. A spring is the head of nascent water, as if pouring out waters. Moreover, some have received names from their own causes, of which some are to be noted that are memorably celebrated in histories.

About Uitna
About the asphalt lake
Ftna is a moderate island in the asphalt lake, the Dead Sea,
situated in Bantamco, distant from the shore.
It is now called the sea because of its size and depth. The Dead Sea produces nothing.
It is separated by a small strait between Tamia Maion, whose glebe is best suited for grains.
It has forests and no swamps: it receives nothing from the neighboring Gine.
Many wild animals, cattle, and beasts of burden, fountains, and rivers irrigate the island.
The climate is very healthy and said to be very rich in springs.
It is inhabited today in the corners.

Now follows about the rivers
Luiuus is through
the water's
course: from the river
it is perpetually
called. Near
the river itself
the water flows.

But neither does it have fish nor birds. But whatever living things are submerged,
no matter how hard they try, they immediately bounce back. And however violently struck, they are quickly shaken off. But neither is the bitumen moved by the winds of the whirlwind, resisting which all water stagnates. Nor is it patient of navigation because all life is lacking in the deep, nor does it sustain any material unless it is illuminated by bitumen: extinguish even a lamp submerged in it. They say that a burning lamp floats on top: this place is called asphalt because it is a sea of salt and is in Judea near Jericho and Zachan. Its length extends up to Zoroas of Arabia,
is measured in seven hundred and eighty stadia, its width in one hundred stadia, or up to the vicinity of Sodom. Up to here. Ib. xiij. in ca. About the destruction of Sodom at the end, this lake spews out large clods of bitumen: and therefore it is called the Asphalt Lake: on whose bank apples are born on trees until they are ripe: they are green in color. If you cut them open when ripe, you will find ashes inside. Whence Josephus says: the story of the land of Sodom is credible. A similar thing is said in the gloss on the second Peter. j. c. about that place the cities of Sodom returning to the sea still wanted to cultivate the region opposite almost there are born beautiful apples which generate a desire to eat them for the spectators which if you pluck they become ashes and dissolve into smoke and throw it as if it were still burning: Josephus also reports that Vespasian, wishing to test what had been said, that that sea receives nothing alive, ordered some men with their hands tied behind their backs to be thrown into the deep sea. And all, like sponges, were pushed upwards and floated on top. That sea receives the Jordan flowing through and the Sede Borchar until it again meets the Red Sea: and this according to some not openly but through cavernous passages of the rocky bottom under the earth: but to some inhabitants of the Holy Land it is pleasing that it enters the Mediterranean Sea through an underground passage: about the same see at the end of the third age in the description of the Holy Land
The Araris river of Germany, about which Virgil says: The Parthian will drink the Ararim, or Germany the Tigris. For it runs through Parthia and Assyria
The Araxis river of Armenia, which rises from one mountain with the Euphrates in different forms, is called that because it prostrates everything with its impetuosity. Hence, when Alexander wanted to cross it, he cleansed it with such force that he destroyed the bridge. Here, at short intervals from the source of the Euphrates, it raises its head: and then it is carried into the Caspian Sea
The Bactrus river, originating from King Bactro, is called that, from whom also Bactria

The Betis river, which also gave its name to the province of Betica: about which Martial says. Betis, rich in olives, crown your banks with golden wool, which is dyed there with a beautiful color. Betis is said to be so because the humble sun runs down. For the Greeks call humble or submerged Betim.
The Coaspis river of the Persians is called in their language that it has a wonderful sweetness of water from God so that the kings could claim cups from it as long as it was within the borders of Persia. From this river some think that the Cignus river of Cilicia is derived
The Danube, a German river, is said to be called that from the abundance of springs by which it is increased. This is the one that has more fame than all in Europe. The same is also the Hister: because it goes through countless peoples, it changes its name and collects greater forces by winding around. It rises from the German ridges and western parts of the barbarian peoples, going against the east it receives sixty rivers in itself: it flows into the Pontic Sea in seven mouths
Dorixest river according to the gloss on Ecclesiasticus. xim: which is also called Araxis or Arapsis: the river of Armenia which rises from the same mountain with the Euphrates is called so: because it prostrates everything with its rapacity as Isaiah says. li. xiij. Hence, when Alexander wanted to cross it by building a bridge, he cleansed it with such violence that he destroyed the bridge. Here, at short intervals from the source of the Euphrates, it raises its head and then flows into the Caspian Sea as Isaiah says. ibiden. Donx is said by the Greeks to be from the part of their land. For that country where their language flows is called Doric as the gloss says: on Ecclesiasticus. xv. This river seems to be almost a branch of the Tigris or Euphrates or both since it originates from the same source in Armenia, because of which it is said to abound in gems and aromatic herbs whose use is suitable for medicine. Donix, however, is interpreted as the medicine of Geraconis

Therefore, it is said that the Tigris or Euphrates goes out of paradise and comes forth
The Euphrates is the river of Mesopotamia, coming out of paradise, very abundant in springs: which flows through the middle of Babylon. It took its name from its fertility. For in Hebrew Euphrata is called and interpreted fruitful. But it flows and irrigates Mesopotamia in some places just as the Nile irrigates Egypt. But Sallust, a very careful author, asserts that the Tigris and Euphrates flow from one source in Armenia, which, going out to different places, with a space of a thousand miles left in the middle: but the land that is surrounded by them is called Mesopotamia. Up to here Is. li. xiij. c. penl-
The Ermus river of Asia, which cuts through the fields of Smyrna and is itself full of golden waves and sands: from which Smyrna was called.
The Geon, which is also the Nile, is a river of Mesopotamia coming out of paradise: and it is called a gap or earthy because it is turbulent and muddy. But it rises not far from the Atlas Mountains and circles the land of Ethiopia and descends through Egypt and irrigates its plains. Whence Jerome says. about Amos, namely there it flows and almost the Nile of Egypt etc. By the disposition of God, the Nile irrigates all of Egypt once a year, accumulating sand and closing the mouths of it lest it flow into the sea after irrigation, the accumulated heaps being loosened, it returns to its bed: and thus at last going into the sea it is absorbed by the sea. This river nourishes many harmful and poisonous reptiles such as crocodiles and small animals which are called emdros: about which Isaiah says. li.xij. c.y. Emdros, he says, is a small animal named from the fact that it lives in the waters and especially in the Nile. Which if it finds a sleeping crocodile, it rolls itself in the mud first and enters through its mouth into its intestines and tears all its insides and thus it dies.
The gloss also says: about the fourth vice of Simon, namely that the Geon, which is the Nile, is turbulent: and contracts much moisture, whence, by reason of the mud it carries with it, it makes the land through which it passes fruitful and very fertile
The Gazan river of Medorp: which is also called Dyapses: which was called so from a certain king of the Medes: it rises in the east and is received into the Red Sea in chains, however, above this river two tribes and a half, which were led captive from Assyria by King Salmanasar, were forced to remain exiles: as is clear: in the book of Kings. xviij. just as two tribes were placed in captivity by Nabugo: above the river Chobar in Babylon for many times. as is clear in Ezekiel. j. But Chobar is a Babylonian river spreading through the swamps of Babylon, rising from the Tigris or Euphrates: and returning or falling again into one of them as Jerome says. about Ezekiel: The river Chobar abounds in willows and sedges in part of its location: as Isaiah says about that place. xviij. leading beyond the torrent of the willow: here he calls the torrent the river of Babylon above which the people of God reside lest they rejoice but rather weep as it is always sung about the rivers of Babylon etc. There are also other very famous rivers but we are silent about them here because we do not have any mention of them in the Bible
The Jordan river of Judea from two sources of which one is called Jor and the other Dan: it is called Jordan. as Isaiah says: ysion hi-xiij. But it rises under Mount Lebanon, dividing Arabia and Judea: which through many circuits near Jericho flows into the Dead Sea: which itself absorbs and consumes completely. This river at the time of the harvest of wheat, which is accustomed to ripen in Palestine in the spring time, is accustomed to abound more than usual: which happens from the late rains, cleansing and from the melting of the snow. as is said in the histories and in the gloss on Joshua. iij. Forda is said to have filled its banks at the time of harvest etc. Ecclesiasticus xxxiij. almost says the same

This river is in many ways privileged, first because it separated the region of the faithful in God from the region of the unbelieving Jews, namely from Arabia: secondly because it appeared before the councils of Israel: and providing them with a passage to the land of promise: it divided itself in the presence of the ark of the Lord and the people as Joshua says. inj. Thirdly, because it washed away and cleansed the leprosy of Naaman. iij. Kings Fourthly, because through its diffusion: it bore witness to the sanctity of Elijah and Elisha because it obeyed the command of both as is clear ij. Kings. ij. Fifthly, that iron, contrary to the nature of other waters, did not hide in its depths but rather sent it back to the surface, raising up the prophet who had lost it, so that he might receive it. as is read. mij Kings: vi- ca. because by the touch of the most pure flesh of the Lord it deserved to be sanctified: by which means the Lord conferred the power of regenerating water and ordained that the sacrament of human salvation be made in water: as is clear Luke ij. vij. because in the Jordan John the Baptist deserved to see the heavens opened and to hear the voice of the Father: when he understood the ministry of the whole Trinity in baptizing the Lord. There are also other rivers that are not named in scripture such as: Abana and Pharphar which are rivers flowing near Damascus which, being drawn off, irrigate Damascus and are sold by the multiplication of many kinds of herbs and trees and fruits about these it is said: iiij. Kings. v:
The Mimus river of Galicia took its name from the color of the pigment. because many are bought there: Durius is called by the Greeks almost Doncus
The Orontes river of Syria flows near the walls of Antioch: which rising from the rising of the sun is hidden not far from the town by the sea which the ancient Latins called the east from the tract of its origin. By the very impetus of whose flowing, the whole city is refreshed by the colder and zephyr winds constantly blowing there

The Padus river of Italy, poured from the ridges of the Alps: rises from three springs. of which one name is Pady. which, diffused in the manner of a swamp, surrounds the river with a bay. from which also Padus is named. This is called Endanus by the Greeks from Endanus the son of the sun. whom they call Phaeton who, struck by lightning, was thrown and extinguished in the same river. But it is increased from the rising of the fields: melting snow and with the accession of thirty rivers it is carried into the Adriatic Sea around Ravenna

About the Rhine
A swift and most noble river,
having its source in association with
the Rhodanus on the mountain called. About
Meyse among the common people and in the
episcopal Chur: which is a suffragan of
the Mainz bishop. The Rhine rises in the
middle of the aforementioned mountain: between the north
and the east. The Rhodanus, however, rises from another
side of the same mountain. between Mendiez & the west.
The Rhodanus is said to be from "rodo" which
flowing impetuously: gnaws at the banks. or it is said
from "rodamso" which is the same as "torqueo"
because it impetuously gnaws at the banks & twists
trees in its path. Near its channel the holy
Theban legion in the place called Agaunum
which is distant from the city of Octodurum by: twelve
miles, suffered. & finally the Rhodanus seeks
France & Paris etc. s
The Rhine, as mentioned above, rises in
the mountain. after four miles, through a narrow
passage: it seeks the monastery of the abbey of Tifidis
again, after running down six miles, it flows through
the city of Chur of the aforementioned bishop.
Moreover, after eight miles, it seeks the borders
of Lake Constance. which in the common
name is called: About Bud denzee: & there it
loses its name until Constance for
six miles. Lake
Constance is a most noble place for raising fish,
having on each side excellent meadows
& fertile land: producing many excellent
crops. After the bridge of Constance
again, a little bit at four
arches: again the Rhine rejoices in its own name

until it reaches the lake. the aforementioned lake
extends for two miles. About
the monastery called Steyn: then the Rhine flows
under its own name past Schaffhausen and
Kaiserstuhl & Waldshut. After these are left behind,
three rivers seek its entrance,
named: one called Limmat, coming
from the lake commonly called
About czurcherzee. Another called Reuss, coming
from Lake Lucerne, properly Lucerner See.
The third coming from the mountains, understood:
called Aer. But before these three
enter the Rhine, they combine near the
monastery of Knigsfelden. & the two, namely, Limmat
and Reuss, having lost their names, are
named together Aer. until it
has come to the town of Waldshut
aforementioned. & there, having entered the Rhine, all together
are named Rhine: then it proceeds to
the town of Laufenburg where sailors, with
wonderful skill, lower ships: with
bodies exposed to danger in a terrible
descent, then it touches Sckingen, the town
of Rheinfelden & Basel. and from Basel
for thirteen miles it seeks Strasbourg
properly Strasz burc h where the last bridge is
of the Rhine. And below these fourteen miles
descending. in a wonderful way the Rhine is adorned
by the surrounding territories. for on the left
it has Alsace. & on the right Breisgau
full of vineyards: in the mountains. in the plains
however, countless crops. From Strasbourg
it extends for fourteen miles
to Speyer where it flows past five towns. And
having left Speyer, it eagerly seeks Worms
for seven miles. then Mainz for
seven miles. Again, Rheingau, where it
shines with most noble castles, crops &
fruits. Ask about the wonderful regions
About Rheingau, a very pleasant vineyard
route extends for five miles to Bacharach
& to Wesel for one mile.
And then uninterrupted for twelve
miles it seeks Koblenz, a town of the diocese
of Trier. where below the city: the Moselle
river from the left, approaching: seeks its en-

trance, strengthening it socially for
thirteen miles until it reaches
Agrippina, which is now called Cologne the blessed.
leaving it on the left on the shore, it seeks
after five miles Neuss where the relics
of Saint Quirinus rest. And then
it comes to Lobith, a castle, having passed before: twelve
miles: Having left this, the Rhine is divided
into three parts. For one part seeks Geldern
called About IJssel: & below Kampen, a
city: of the diocese of Utrecht: it seeks the sea.
Another part, called About Waal, directs its course
to Nijmegen, a city of Gelderland,
& having passed through Holland, it seeks the
ocean. The third part, the Rhine itself,
flows through Holland to the ocean.
Therefore, it is clear that the Rhine flows from its source
About the mountain called About Meyse to Lobith,
where it is divided into three parts for one hundred and eight miles
of large measure, Teutonic miles. & it touches
two archdioceses: and six bishoprics,
touching the shores of the Rhine.
About Lake Gennesaret
Lake Gennesaret, as it is said there,
is indeed a very large lake in
Judea, which extends for one hundred and sixty
stadia in length. It spreads out for sixty in width.
with waters rippling not by winds
but from itself. Hence it is called
Gennesaret, from a Greek word, as if
generating its own breeze: then for more diffused
spaces of the lake, it is agitated by more frequent breezes.
Hence it is purer to draw
and sweeter and deeper to drink.
So far, here. Because of its magnitude
it is often called a sea in the Gospel.
not that it is a sea, but rather a certain
great reflux of the Jordan, as the gloss says
on John, chapter 6. It is the custom of the
Hebrews to call every such gathering of water
a sea: And therefore they are often
called by the name of the sea.
The Tigris is a river of Mesopotamia,
coming out of paradise, it goes against the Assyrians,
as Constantine says. which after many circuits
enters the Red Sea: it is called
by this name because of its impetus and velocity

like a tiger, an animal running ahead with great
impetus: For Josephus says:
that the Tigris rises in Armenia. from the same
source from which the Euphrates rises & it is called
Tiglath, which sounds sharp or narrow,
for it runs narrowly & sharply like
an arrow, therefore the Tigris
in the Persian language means swift or arrow
is named.
Tanais was the first king of the Scythians, from whom
the river Tanais is said to be named, which
coming from the Riphean forests: divides Europe
from Asia, running in the middle between the two parts of the world
and flows into the Pontus.
The Tagus River, Carthage named it of Spain:
from which much gold proceeds. a river
abundant in golden sands: & because of this it is
preferred to other rivers of Spain.
Lake Tiberias. is called from the town of Tiberias:
which Herod once built in
honor of Tiberius Caesar: It is indeed
the largest lake or pool, healthier than all
lakes in Judea: & more effective for bodily
health: It is about one hundred and sixty
stadia in circumference, as Isidore says, book 13.
Here ends chapter on rivers
Again, about the sources
already mentioned.
namely, Gihon, Tigris, Pishon,
Euphrates, the sources still
exist. There is also a source in Epirus
wonderful: as James and Solinus say
in which burning torches are extinguished.
and extinguished they are lit again. They signify
in this way the sins of some,
brought forth by indignation: & they stir up
fury in the soul. But sins
are extinguished even in another's
soul. There is a certain source, as
James says, in Ethiopia, near the
Garamantes: so cold by day: that it is not
drunk: so hot by night: that it is not
touched. There is a certain source in the parts
of the East, as James says: from whose
waters Greek fire is made: mixed with certain
other things: which after they have been violently
ignited, can scarcely or never
be extinguished: except with vinegar & human urine
or sand. The waters of the aforementioned source
are bought at a great price by the Saracens.
There is a certain source, as Pliny says, in Italy:
which is called Ficironis. which heals wounds of the eyes.
There are also certain waters in certain
parts of the world: which are given to women
who, having washed in these waters:
There is also a certain source in Africa. which
makes voices melodious: as Augustine says.
There are sources in Boeotia which confer memory:
and others which cause oblivion,
as Augustine says. The Zifim source: which
removes luxury, as Pliny says: There are two sources in
Sicily: one which makes sterile women fertile,
the other which makes fertile women sterile,
as Augustine says: There are two rivers in
Thessaly: from one drinking sheep are said
to become black. from the other white as snow.
From both, however, various: as Augustine says:
The source of Job in Idumea is known
to change its color in the year. that is
dusty, bloody: at the same time
& clear: each color for one month
of these: as the oriental history says.
From the Clincian lake, those who have drunk
have vomiting: There are pools from which
nothing can swim: but all things sink
as Augustine says. There are others, like that
Dead Sea, it is said, in which all things
float and cannot sink. There are lakes
in which the waters are bitter three times a day
& three times a day they are sweet, as Augustine says.
There are certain hot springs for the eyes
are given: but they expose thieves. For he who
denies having committed a theft, if he becomes perjured:
he is blinded by the aforementioned waters: but if he is not
guilty, he sees more clearly than before. But
this is to be ascribed more to miracle than
to nature: as James says. There is also a certain
source, quiet & tranquil.
But if tubes are placed near it, they
rise up exultingly at the sound. &
as if captivated by the sweetness of the voice, they overflow
beyond the banks, as Solinus says. There is a certain source,
as the book of wonders says, in Armorican
Britain, whose waters, thrown upon five
stones, are said to provoke rains & thunder.
But sources, both in the sea and on land,
of sweet, very clear water are found: one of which, it is said,
in the parts of Samana, varies four times a year in different colors.
namely, bloody or sanguine, dusty or turbid
& clear color, with a wonderful & pleasing
alternation in the eyes of those looking on &
pretending, as the oriental history says.
But the Siloam source, as the oriental history says,
not continuously: but on alternate days
three or four times a week it emits sweet waters
from its depths. There is a river
near Mount Lebanon: between
two cities: Arca and Raphana,
swift again & abounding in many waters,
which is called Sabbath. because for six days
of the week it does not at all
exhibit waters from itself. but on the seventh day it brings forth
copious waters. from this sudden and abundant
& cleansing effect, as James says.
But in the Tyrian and Aconian territory
from the sands of the sea: from the sand, namely,
& marine clay: by the art of sand
the purest glass is made, as James says.
But the Red Sea, which the children of Israel crossed on dry feet:
is in the confines of Egypt
and Arabia: whose waters, from the adjacent land
which is almost of a bloody color. seem to be red:
which are of the same color
as the waters of the Dead Sea. as
James says. But there is a certain river
in Persia which always freezes at night
so much that men are able to cross over it:
by day it always melts into waters,
as the oriental history says. There are certain rivers
in the parts of the East, which are said to have golden
sands, as James says.
Others which have precious stones. The Imman source
is: in the upper parts of the city
of Cairo: which with very sweet waters
so vehemently gushes forth from the bottom of the sea that
it leaps over two or three cubits above the sea.
& this when the sea is calm.
But when the waves are stirred by the wind,
the source is indeed overwhelmed by them: but when
it passes, it immediately rises as before. It is indeed
so eminent above the sea that
it can be drawn in vessels.
For indeed, having learned about regions,
mountains, islands, rivers, and sources,
the understanding of all
the threefold division of the earth may be had for some
sacred history.
Now, however, there will be a quick return to
sacred history, so that the chain of
the genealogy of the holy fathers, mentioned above, may be continued,
with their notes annexed.


